---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/0-03-welcome/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0.02 Arrivals two days earlier\|0.02 Arrivals two days earlier]]

The doors to Ashgrove were wide open to the hot late summer air, but walking inside there was an immediate cooling and comfort to the place. The entry hall was massive, with stairwells wrapping around the huge room, ascending to the second, third, and fourth floors, balconies showing other teens and a number of adults looking down from around the various railings. A huge chandelier added light to the indirect light from outside and three large formal looking heavy wood tables with papers scattered about and competent looking teens with bright blue sashes on were finding specific pieces of paper and handing them out. 

"We will lead groups to specific dorm areas once everyone has their assignments!" This voice was older, warm and motherly. The woman dressed all in black, whose dark hair was streaked with white framing a worn and weathered face leaned on a walking stick but a palpable aura of authority radiated from her. "Steven? Be so kind as to instill some order here please?"

The driver with an attitude who looked like he should be in the desert somewhere out west nodded to her and spoke up, his voice ringing clearly throughout the room with authority. "If you have your assignment in hand, step back to the walls please! We will call out groups by house! Student ambassadors will lead you to that specific house. Do NOT go with another group, please. This is not a movie, there are no moving staircases but there are reasons for your House assignment. You cannot change it at this time. Do NOT ask." He did not have to repeat himself. 

It didn't take long for the remaining few people to get assignments once the ones who had a paper in hand got out of the way.  "Your assignment has three things of critical importance on it," he continued as now everyone pushed back to a wall, away from the middle of the room. "Your House. There are eight. You will eventually learn where they all are, today is not that day. Your keys. Please don't lose them. Lastly, your room number. There will be no switching of rooms. There will be no trading of rooms. There will be no whining about room assignments. No complaining about roommates. It is what it is until tomorrow. Then and not until then will we listen to requests to change rooms. In addition, let me get a few things out of the way now that you will think you can ask for." He looked to the older woman who nodded. "Thank you Magistra."

He sighed and looked down for a minute. He was wearing shoes for hiking in watery or wet conditions. Looking back up he smiled, a forced parody of a smile. "You will not be moving in with another first year student. You will not be moving in with a member of the opposite sex. You will not be complaining about your upperclassmen roommates. They are not out to get to you, they are not trying to ruin your lives. You are in fact an inconvenience to THEM." He let that one sit in the air for a bit. "They are doing YOU a favor. You don't understand this yet, but you will, eventually. Some of you may even recognize it enough to volunteer, as they did, to do it for someone else. So do not waste your time, or ours with your petty complaints. Figure it out. Come to us with real problems, please." 

He looked over to the older woman who nodded decisively. "Thank you Steven, as always you are succinct and to the point. You'd have made a lousy witch." She gave him a grin and he returned her comment with a smile and a bowed head. A few chuckles descended from above. "To those of you paying attention, this is [[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]], he speaks in the voice of the Secret Master of Ashgrove. He is a Journeyman who stands with all the rights and privileges of a Master as far as the Students are concerned." She rapped her cane on the hardwood floor. "Now. All of you who are assigned to the House of Man Ascendent, go outside, now. Two volunteers in the blue sashes are waiting for you to show you your new home."

They started moving out and one of those was a smaller boy who dropped his suitcase with a clatter and several giggles erupted but were cut off shortly by the sound of a cane rapping hard on the floor. "Respect!" The Magistra intoned. "Before the year is out you shall all be humbled at least once. Treat others as you would want to be treated then."

About half the student's in the foyer left and the noise volume appeared to drop by more than that.  When the last trickled out the woman nodded to Steven who began another round of loud voiced direction. 

"Everyone here to the center please and thank you. If you are in the House of Walking Trees, please be so kind as to go to the wall here-" A small firework explosion went off to the left of the front doors, the sparkles slowly descending after the bright flash and pop got everyone's attention. "If you are in the The House of Hastening Sunset, to the other side of the doors please. The House of Blood and Bone, head outside but wait for this young lady," Steven points to a tall blonde girl who waves by the front door. "She will take you once the Man Ascendent have cleared out."

It takes several more minutes, but each group trickles out one by one. The foyer is feeling more echoey, and the watchers above have gotten more quiet. 

"If your paperwork says House of Cthuga, please follow Mister Van Der Meer." A tall lean fellow in a polo waves from by the front doors. "[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]] is responsible for your House and will likely be a teach all of you will have over the next few years so do behave."

"Steven," Frederick says with a dutch accent, "You make it sound like I will be harsh if they are rude." He chuckles easily. 

"You DID electrocute someone last year, intentionally," Steven ripostes.

"He deserved it though-" 

The woman in the dark dress raps her cane. "Enough, you scare the children. Go on." She is smiling a little though. 

That crew walks out. 

Steven calls out again, "The House of Clocks Stopped at Midnight. If you have the House of Clocks Stopped at Midnight on your paper, go out now." Only three students go out. 

"And the House of Endless Circles," Steven looks at the remaining dozen students. "You should know the drill by now. The House of Endless Circles, head out. There is a student waiting for you." Five head out, leaving seven students standing there awkwardly.

Steven waits for the group outside to move on, then looks up to the watchers on the balconies. Finally he takes pity on the confused seven. "Your papers are blank as to house, correct?" They all nod, slowly and hesitantly. "Not a typo, just a precaution." He sighs, "Welcome to the House of the Royal Hermetic Mage. Possibly the largest class we've had in a decade. There is room for you though. Your House is the smallest house on campus, though everyone wants in. We will get to why you got in and why they want in soon enough. For now, follow the volunteer here," he indicates a young man in a blue sash. "He will get you to your new home."

They left out the front door, quiet and a little confused.

"Initial thoughts?" Steven asked the Magistra quietly. 

She shrugged. "You can tell nothing from this, but I maintain *he* may be jumping at shadows. Assuming a Cabal plant in a new student? It is preposterous."

Steven shrugged, "I do not disagree, Magistra." His formal response was full of disagreement. 

She looked at him, looked up at him and she gave him a small smile. "You do your Master proud Steven. Keep walking that fine line." She chuckled and reached up to pat his cheek fondly. "Now go check on Francis. I expect he has forgotten his role in tonight's orientation." She shook her head as she walked away. "The man would forget pants if there was an interesting problem to work on."

Steven chuckled and looked about the entry hall as the student volunteers cleared the tables and cleaned up. His eyes caught a pair of near black ones on the fourth floor railing over to the West. Under a tumble of raven black glossy hair she was looking right at him. She blew him a kiss and then turned and walked away into the shadows. With a small shake of his head Steven wandered off to check on Master [[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Masters/Francis Hornblatt, Esq.\|Francis Hornblatt, Esq.]].

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0.04 Welcome to your house\|0.04 Welcome to your house]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Christopher (last name)\|Christopher (last name)]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Masters/Cecilia Dominga Reyes y Vasquez\|Cecilia Dominga Reyes y Vasquez]]


