---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/0-04-welcome-to-your-house/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0.03 Welcome\|0.03 Welcome]]

IN PROCESS OF REWRITE

A short walk in the clean air isn't bad, in general. With a suitcase and backpack on a gravel walkway, a bit moreso. Only a few students were breathing heavy as they walked up to the door of a white manor house. More students were splitting off left and right to other houses arranged in a rough triangle to one side of the house they started at. A clearing of the throat drew their attention back to the blue sashes in front of them. 

"Almost every year someone asks if there is a password or a secret door, or teams to get into. The short answers are no, no, and not really. There are student organizations to get into, but with a student body of about a thousand, spread across several years, the groups aren't large." The speaker was a tall girl, late teens or maybe twenty, dirty blonde hair pulled back in a ponytail. Her blue sash laid over a comfortable yellow tee shirt with a sunflower pattern. "Houses are technically open for anyone to walk through, sit in, common areas, et cetera. There is a catch of course." 

She opens the door and ushers you all inside where several other older students are waiting, getting up from couches and chairs scattered about a large open room done in white. Over a marble fireplace mantle hangs a flag on a simple crossbar. It shows a burst of flame in yellow and red on a black background. Stark in the white room. 

"The common room of every house holds their flag. There is an on-going competition. You are now part of it. Flags can be stolen. Flags are worth points to the house that has them. Protect the flag." She looks at all of the them. "You are now members of the house of Cthuga, Lord of Flame, Imperial. This flag is important and you will treat it as such. Now, your rooms. Your rooms are not common areas, you'll see why shortly." 

She gestures to the gathered upperclassmen.  "Meet your housemates and roommates. You can and will be relying on them for your orientation period. Next year you can pick a roommate or apply for a single, or apply to be in their shoes and help freshmen."

She runs through the list and starts naming names. New students start heading upstairs with their roommates. 

"Arthur Villareal!" 

Arthur had been steadily losing interest until his name was called. His roommate was a big guy. Well over six foot tall, muscled like a professional weightlifter with pale Scandinavian blue eyes and buzzed cut short blonde hair. "C'mon," he said sharply and headed for the stairs, not offering to help Arthur with his suitcase. Arthur struggled while his as yet unnamed roommate waited impatiently at the top of the stairs. The walking wall of muscle headed down the left side at the top of the stairs and down a wing that showed the building was larger than first appeared. It felt almost like an upper class hotel. Soft lighting, smooth carpet. But the doors were rather close together. He opened a door three down from the hallway by the stairs and went in, leaving the door open. 

The room wasn't large. Arthur's mother had a walk-in closet larger in their apartment in the City. Two beds, two desks, two closets. A bathroom that looked like it was shared with the next room down. 

"My name is Michael--"

"What the fuck is this shit?!" Arthur cut him off as he stood in the center of his tiny and now shared room. He cussed loudly, not caring who heard. "No wifi, having to share a room with some asshole I don't know, and this room is smaller than my closet at home!" He kicked the waste basket across the room and and groaned in frustration. Three large valise cases were on his bed, and his leather satchel was on his desk. A note from his mother said they had been sent on ahead and to 'enjoy his time' at Ashgrove. 

"Fuck this, I am not staying here!" he raged and turned for the door. A hand like a steel trap closed on his shoulder and slammed him down in his desk chair, casually. 

"Michael," he repeats in a gentle unaccented tone. He peels his sweat stained tee shirt off, showing a wolf tattoo on his shoulder. "Unpack what shit you need, put the rest under the bed. I'm going to lay down rules. I know all I need from reading who you are and listening to your bitching." He turned and looked down at Arthur. "Mr. Villareal's little boy doesn't mean shit here. You want to follow daddy in the Cabal, make the rules, you put in your time here. I don't care what you do or don't want. I have dealt with your type before, they have three endings. Three."

Arthur stood up to the muscle bound roommate, trying to show him who had the clout here and he feels a hand grab him by the balls and pull. He collapses in pain on the floor as Michael stands over him, not having moved. 

"One, you learn. I really do hope you do. Two, you wash out. They wipe you and you go on to Harvard, or Yale, or who the fuck cares and you get a corner office and a string of mistresses but you never know how the world *works* and your family is always, *always* disappointed in you and you will never know why."

Michael took his towel and a carryall of soap and shampoo and went to head to the bathroom. 

"Th-three?" Arthur squeaked out.

Michael paused. "Three, someone, I won't say who, arranges for you to get lost in the Ways and your body is never found. You heard Steven say they always get you out. Yeah, they do, but sometimes they have to go back in time to FIND you before someone does something permanent to little shits like you. You hear me Artie? You know why I'm your roomie? Cause I will take care of you, one way or another, and you can't intimidate me, you can't threaten me, you can't even impress me."

The bathroom door slams behind him and the invisible hand releases his junk, letting Arthur breath again. It is another minute before he struggles to get to his feet and look at the suitcases. "Enjoy his time mom? Really?" He begins unpacking. Quietly.







OLD ORIGINAL CRAP NEEDS REWRITE



"Just don't go into the basement levels until you get through orientation," she said. That other speaker was shorter, plump with dark hair and a black shirt adorned with some roses and thorns and blood. "There isn't any real danger, but you could run into things best left for after orientation." She chuckled. "Ok since the new folks get whatever is left over, I can assume you aren't in the first two blocks of rooms, anyone have a number less than 30?"

Silence fell.

"Cool," the shorter one continued. "After each block of ten rooms, five on a side, is a bathroom. Two technically, one on each side with several shower stalls, sinks, etc. standard is women's on the right going in, men's on the left. We put up signs." She pointed to a sign that read ==MENS== tacked on a door. "Then immediately after is a common room." They were in one in fact. With tables, armchairs, windows looking out one way over the forest, the other way to the Central Wing over a courtyard of gardens and flowers. It was quite spacious. "Then another batch of rooms. 11-20..." They proceeded on. "In case you were wondering, yes, there are other stairs," the blonde commented. "You don't have to walk the entire length of the dorm halls to get to a staircase. There is one after twenty's common room. Also we should be getting to your rooms so call out with numbers after the common room please." 

Indeed the pattern did repeat. Bathrooms, another common room, subtly different in furnishings but essentially the same, then a staircase around a corner, pointed out by the guides. "Dinner is on floor one, so down two flights. Volunteers," she tugged on he sash, "will be about, looking for stragglers."

At thirty-three the first call out occurred and a girl in glasses, a tank top, and sweat pants fumbled with her keys, taped to her paperwork and opened the door. "You'll all be disappointed soon enough," said the shorter blue sashed volunteer, "No hanging around staring. Any other 30s?" 

Two more in thirty, another girl and the younger boy. In the forties the blue haired girl spotted her number. 42. She unlocked the door and stepped away from the rapidly evaporating crowd to see the place. 

Small. White walls. Minimal furniture.

Well to be fair, there were two lofted beds, two desks, two closets. The window faced the Central Wing with blackout curtains pulled back. Her roommate was obviously in residence as the one bed was made, one desk had a book on it, one closet had a hanger on the handle. A subtle set of markers saying, 'Mine.'

She heaved a sigh and dropped her backpack, sitting in a free desk chair, looking around the room. "Yeah, common rooms sound like a good idea." She hauled the overpacked backpack up onto the desk and began unpacking. 

She was halfway into her suitcase when she heard a key in the lock. She went very still as the lock unlatched and the door opened tentatively to see a very short and slender girl, long straight black hair and dark brown eyes in a pale face. The girl stayed right at the entrance to the room, not entering. 

"H-hello," she softly stammered. "I've never... done, this before so I didn't know how long to give you before saying hello. I'm your roommate," her voice dropping a bit more. "Akari. Akari Sakai. Pleased to meet you. I will let you continue in peace, I'm sorry."

"Wait- just... come in," she gave the tiny girl a lopsided grin, "It's your room too. We can talk while I unpack." She leaned over and extended her hand, "I'm Sally."

Akari stepped hesitantly into the room and shook the hand gingerly, her little hand seemingly fragile. "Good to meet you in person Sally. They gave me some generalities when matching up to new students, but not much more than name and picture, so we could find you if you needed help." Akari stepped over to her bed and hopped up onto it, getting off the floor and out of the way. 

Sally nodded, "Well I flew in this morning from Philadelphia. I'm not from there but it was the closest airport that would fly direct into Asheville. It was only two hours. Took an hour to drive to the airport. I'm from a little place in PA... Pennsylvania. How about you?"

Akari had been listening intensely. "My family lives outside San Francisco currently, but they moved here from Japan when I was a baby. When you have a year of practice, if you are any good, they won't make you fly anymore." She brightened up a bit. "I was seeing my mother this morning in fact, then came back here by myself." 

Sally stopped, obviously not hearing things correctly. "You saw your mother this morning? In Asheville?"

Akari grins, "No silly. In San Francisco. Well, Mill Valley is across the Bay technically, on the north side. If you like, I can ask if I can take you home for a weekend. They sometimes say yes." She tilted her head, looking vaguely birdlike. "This is a school that teaches magic Sally, you should learn to expect strange things." The petite girl raised a hand and lights started dancing. Little pinpoints of light swirling like shooting stars in tight orbits about her hand. She makes a tossing gesture and the lights scatter about the room, impacting the walls, furniture, Sally, who stares unbelieving. 

"My, my mother said I needed to come here to learn, like she did. I just thought she was being kind..." Sally stammered.

"You're Kin? A legacy?" Akari smiles, "They didn't tell me. That makes a big difference, they have to let you go with me, or let me take you back to your home if I get some good directions! We will have so much fun!"

Sally looked at Akari still not quite believing. "Magic? I... I need to talk to my mom."

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0.05 1 Star Rating\|0.05 1 Star Rating]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Sally (last name)\|Sally (last name)]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Akari Sakai\|Akari Sakai]]
