---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-03-take-a-walk/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV\|1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV\|1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV]]

Arthur really didn't want to go back to his room. Michael might be there after all and all that, unpleasantness. The boy took a walk toward the woods. He followed the trail that ran along the edge of it past the lake and listened to the breeze ruffling the surface of the water gently. Insects buzzed. For a city boy, this was deep wilderness as far as Arthur was concerned. He followed the trail as it turned into the woods, feeling the shadows of the tres cutting off the heat of the sun and the temperature fell. Not cold at all of course, but cool. Comfortable. The breeze dropped, the noises shifted muted and softer. 

Arthur walked along the trail to a small meadow. Tall grass filled it and the trail just ended at the edge. The forest continued on, but Arthur couldn't see anything but trees. Arthur knew virtually nothing about trees. He knew some shed their leaves in winter and some didn't. He knew there was a name for it, but he didn't care. It wasn't important to him. 

In the distance, a branch snapped. 

Arthur spun about, but the trees blocked his vision past a few dozen feet. 

A flash of white shown around the side of a tree and then disappeared again. Arthur walked back toward the campus along the path. His eyes straining toward the flash of white. 

*"Arthuuuur,"* He heard his name whispered behind him and he spun about, but there was nothing there. Arthur began to run for the safety of the sunlight and campus. Suddenly the understandable danger of Michael was preferable.

Arthur jogged raggedly across the green grass of the campus, and in the woods, the white lady stared after him from behind a tree.

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]