---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-01-what-is-magic/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0- Intro/0.05 1 Star Rating\|0.05 1 Star Rating]]

"What is the flavor of a C# note?"

Steven's question hung in the air. The morning was a little cloudy and the bright morning blue of previous days was now a milky white, bright and hard on the eyes. 

"A nonsense question," Steven continued after a long moment of silence. "Some of you no doubt thought it ridiculous. It is, but so is the very concept of magic. Ridiculous, impossible. It cannot exist." He sighed and snapped his fingers. An arc of flame issued out, burning white hot so strong the students in the closest seats pushed back in alarm. Even the students in the back could feel the heat on their faces. 

"Magic IS. Of that there is no doubt. Millenia now, magi have worked in the shadows to guide civilization. Now some will ask why don't mages rule the world?" He chuckled, "Well who says they don't? You don't think there are magi in the highest levels of power all over the world? That a mage here in Ashgrove couldn't if they wanted to, put a thought into the head of the President? Couldn't direct a PAC to shape public opinion, couldn't dictate what was and was not covered in the media?" 

He shook his head, "Ethics and options aside, that is," he laughed, "Another, much longer lecture and I will let others handle it. The fact of magic IS, so I repeat, what is the flavor of a C# note? Anyone?" He notes a tentative hand raised. "Sally?"

Her hand crept down again, as slowly as it had been raised. "Isn't that ... kinda, like personal? People have different tastes and palettes."

Steven nodded. "Very true. If I ask what your favorite flavor of ice cream is, we'd get several different responses. So too with magic. So a better question. What does magic feel like to you? Sally?"

She shook her head. "I don't know. I haven't... haven't really felt it yet. My folks showed me what and how. I DID it, but I haven't FELT it." She looked disappointed under her blue bangs. 

Steven nodded, "It will come with practice. Come talk to me at office hours if you like and we can discuss what it was like for me the first time I felt it. Might help." He smiled reassuringly at the girl before calling a name without looking up. "Arthur. Tell us what it felt like for you."

In the back row [[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]] looked up from under his long dark hair. He didn't meet Steven's eyes though. After a minute of silence he spoke. "It was a rush. I felt a spark inside me that made my hair stand on end and mouth water. Then the sparks flew from my fingers and the paper target I pointed at burst into flames." 

He lapsed into sullen silence, not saying more. 

Steven nodded, smiling softly. "Thank you Arthur." He turned to the class, "In my case, in generalities, I felt power in the rocks under me. My hands were bloody, cut from the stones I had fallen on. I was in desperate straights at the bottom of a ravine miles from help. I felt power, and I called, asked, prayed, what have you." He closed his eyes a moment. "I *flew*. To the top of the ravine, touched down and promptly passed out. Woke up a few hours later and didn't know what to make of it until someone showed up and hauled me here. I was older than you by a few years." He shook his head. "Until that first breakthrough, no one knows how your magic will manifest. Some people talk to the dead from an early age. Some light things on fire at puberty. Most have to practice until they get that first 'spark', like Arthur." 

He collected a tablet from the desk behind him. "Those of you who have not yet had a spark of magic manifest, I have some exercises I have added to the portal. A mix of meditations, physical exercises, primal screams," a few scattered chuckles answered that one. "Don't laugh. Desperation can bring things to the surface. Arthur obviously you are exempt from this one. As are anyone else who can demonstrate for me a magical effect. Not now," he chuckled and threw up a hand. "After class if you like or at office hours. Take the rest of this class to review the options I laid out in the portal and ask questions, or start practicing. Not the primal screaming, please. My ears." He mock winced. "Arthur, you can leave early, or stay and help. Up to you."

In the back of the classroom, Arthur still didn't meet Steven's eyes, but he didn't leave. He picked up the tablet and poked at it, pulling up the list. Fourth down was trying to set a paper target on fire. He stared at it for long moments before raising a hand. 

"Arthur?" called Steven, "What can I do for you?"

"Do we have paper targets? I can try and talk people through that one. My mother made me do it enough." His voice was low and uneven, but determined to get through it. 

Steven looked down at a stack of papers on the corner of the table he was leaning against. After a few heartbeats the entire stack sailed across the room and settled on Arthur's lap. "If anyone wants to try paper targets, go with Arthur to the back of the room please? Arthur? I assume you can handle any fire that gets out of control?" 

With a faint nod from Arthur, Steven went back to the class. Sally stood up and went to Arthur. The younger boy, Christopher his name was, went too as well as Tilly. Sally had gotten to know them both in "TT", their Intro class here.

The targets had creases on them for folding to make them stand up. He folded one and stood it on the tile floor well away from the walls. "My... I was told to think of a spark of fire inside, to find it, blow on it, build it up and force it out, to set it on the target and let it go. It took awhile to get there but I was young so I probably didn't understand very well." He grimaced.

Sally asked, "How young were you?" She pushed the blue hair back behind her ears to see the target clearly. 

"Eight," he muttered. "Father was annoyed it took that long."

Sally and Christopher just stared at him, "You were doing magic at eight and he wasn't happy?" Sally asked incredulously. "What the fuck is wrong with him?"

Arthur shook his head, "It isn't important, let's focus on the targets." He held out a hand. "It isn't necessary to gesture or speak but I find it helps." He pointed at the target and whispered loudly, "*Burn*." The target caught fire immediately.

He collected it quickly by an unburnt corner and dropped it into the metal wastepaper basket before setting out another one. 

"Alright, Sally? Your turn. Focus on the target, think about it being hot, burning hot, let your heat infuse the target." Arthur stepped back. 

Sally pointed. Sally said "burn". Sally said "*Burn*." Sally repeated the word, Sally stopped pointing. After awhile Sally sighed and said, "Next."

Arthur didn't say anything.

Tilly stepped up in her designer sweats. She pointed and closed her eyes a moment, breathing deeply, then opened them and said, "Inferno." The paper smoldered a moment then caught fire. She grinned and clapped. "Yay, done." She turned to Steven, "I set the paper on fire, I'm out of here!" She grabbed her tablet and purse and left the room before Arthur even put the burning paper in the metal can. 

Sally looked a bit depressed. 

Christopher looked up at her, "I'm sure you'll figure it out. Maybe this just isn't your style?"

Sally shook her head. "I'm just... she made it look EASY."

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV\|1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV\|1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher (last name)\|Christopher (last name)]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]] - Tilly

