---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-02b-lab-work-laurie-s-pov/"}
---

Steven at least had the decency to reveal her existence with a bit of flair, making it seem like she was some enchantress. That she was forced to come at his beck and call she'd chew him out about later. Now she strode angrily down the hallway from the Library toward the main stairs to the basement. She didn't check to see if Sally was keeping up. If she can't keep up, there is no point in teaching her.  Despite what the note from the secret master said, Sally had to learn and do the work, no more or less than anyone else in her year. 

The note had been on her desk that morning in fact. A simple sheet of printout, she confirmed with Steven that he too received one. Disturbing that it apparently slipped through her protections and defenses and didn't even wake her. She cussed out the Secret Master in the privacy of her room for a good ten minutes after verifying her wards had held, then she read the note as she did her morning skin care routine. 

	Sally Rivers requires personal attention, specifically on drawing circles and cleansing a space. Get her up to speed in the next two weeks. 

No name, no signature, not even some arcane linkage on the paper she could use to trace it back. Steven's had been much the same, only his had specified an additional word at the end. That word difference between the notes explained why she had broken her illusion cover and was stalking down the stairs into the basement. 

	Delegate.

The Secret Master wanted Steven teaching the class, leaving it to Laurie to play nursemaid. It could be as simple as not wanting to create an illusion of impropriety, though Laurie's mind went to her failures as a teacher, her difficulties in reaching this point in her academic career. Now she was being held responsible for a specific task. Teach a first year with minimal background despite being a Legacy how to prepare a space to work magic in. 

"Before we get you started working down here, I want you to understand something of the scale you are going to be working toward." Start with the worst case scenario, then wipe the slate and start smell. She had been taught the same way. The frustration with doing so was a reason she'd had her breakout on handling raw magic. Now she has to teach? *I will scream at Steven about this later.* She thought savagely. "This is one of the upper class workrooms," Laurie swung a door open after checking the signup sheet. Her enhanced senses had already explored every work room down here for a hundred yards, but forms must be followed. The room was well lit from all four corners. Those same corners had cabinets tucked into them, closed neatly. Otherwise the room was empty. A good fifteen feet across, the entire floor was bare save for an incredibly ornate script, several levels deep, inscribing a circle on the floor. Laurie noted the space was cleansed and prepped, but sloppily. She'd need to take it up with a Master and see about getting the upperclassmen held accountable.

"Take a good look about. This is senior level work for students who never learn to operate with the chaos of raw magic. There is no shame or failure in it, not everyone's mind works that way and magic is still readily within your reach, you just need to take more precautions and preparations." *The best DO break through that barrier though,* Laurie thought to herself. *That one, the Temporal barrier, and the Connection Barrier.* The Connection Barrier had been easy for Laurie. She had started in [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Endless Circles\|The House of Endless Circles]] and had only graduated to [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage\|The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage]] after two years of painstaking work. That final breakthrough had been such a relief, it meant she could pursue her academic career, possibly even make Master one day. Vaguely curious, Laurie reached out with her magic and inspected Sally's mind. Not specifics, but surface thoughts and feelings, to see if she'd put in the work. She felt Sally's despair of ever getting this far, but no desire to give up. She also saw her vague attraction and Laurie dismissed that. She'd been feeling that from everyone since she was old enough to need a bra.

"Come along," Laurie intruded on Sally's study of the floor. "Now for a first year room and practice." Laurie turned off the lights and moved on down the basement hallway. The paths branching, stretching out into the distance. "Practice rooms follow the blue marker," Laurie commented, pointing to a blue line on the floor. There are arrows in the blue, pointing back the way they came. "The arrows all point to the main building. There are connecting passages to other buildings farther out, but don't go wandering. Its easy to get lost, and there are things here that aren't always friendly." *Like certain professors who need leashes to keep them in mind,* Laurie thought with a well defended shudder. 

Before Sally could ask for clarification, Laurie stopped and hauled a door open. Similar, the corners, the lights, but the floor was scuffed up. I dull off-white and boxes of colored chalk sat in the middle. "This is going to sound silly, Miss Rivers, but we are going to have you practice drawing on the floor for a few days." Laurie smiled at her. It wasn't exactly a friendly smile, but it was polite. "Drawing circles and concentrating. Clearing your mind and cleansing the space. Steven says you have potential we need to tap. So we start with the basics, time and space. Your dossier says your parents tried to start you on understanding probabilistic magic. We can continue with that if you are comfortable." Laurie raised an eyebrow questioningly but moved right along. "A simple spell to control the result of a coin flip, once you get the space cleared."

Sally looked at the floor, the chalk, then back to Laurie. "Can we bring food and drinks in here?" 

Laurie smirked, amused. "I like you went straight to practicalities. Yes, you can. I'm reserving this room for your exclusive use for the next two weeks. I'll be mentoring you in drafting circles and cleansing spaces. In two weeks I expect you will be able to cleanse this space for use in casting spells. If I need to make your fingers bleed and you can't look at chalk without crying, but you do it, then I will count that as a success."

Sally looked like she believed her. "Grab a piece of chalk, any chalk. Don't try to overthink, just grab and go. Later we will get into colors, correspondences, and how to make magic easier. For now, you get to sit in a circle of chalk and try to meditate, effectively."

Sally went to the chalk, while Laurie silently seethed.

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]

