---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-02a-lab-work-sally-s-pov/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1. 01 - What is magic?\|1. 01 - What is magic?]]

As Sally followed the willowy Laurie Vance down the stairs into the basement, her long blue bangs kept falling into her face. The stairwell was well lit and looked modern, totally at odds with the subject matter of this little trip.

"You need to work on some practicals, before you are ready to start setting things on fire," Steven had said after a half hour with Arthur hadn't gotten a spark. "This isn't unusual in students from your House," he continued, "I'm sending you to the work rooms with a personal advisor. *Laurie*," Steven raised his voice slightly, and the woman appeared out of thin air, melting into existence. Tall, slender, wrapped in a conservative dress she made look like it was off a fashion runway. Sally didn't swing that way, but Laurie made her doubt herself as her hips swayed like a pendulum before her while they walked down a hall. 

"Before we get you started working down here, I want you to understand something of the scale you are going to be working toward." Laurie's voice was also distracting, was this why she didn't show herself during "TT"? No one would be able to concentrate? "This is one of the upper class workrooms," Laurie swung a door open after checking a mundane and dogeared signup sheet posted outside. The room was well lit from all four corners. Those same corners had cabinets tucked into them, closed neatly. Otherwise the room was empty. A good fifteen feet across, the entire floor was bare save for an incredibly ornate script, several levels deep, inscribing a circle on the floor. 

"Take a good look about. This is senior level work for students who never learn to operate with the chaos of raw magic. There is no shame or failure in it, not everyone's mind works that way and magic is still readily within your reach, you just need to take more precautions and preparations."

Sally went down on one knee, heedless of the condition of the floor outside the circle and looked closely. The script was a mix of mathematics, words in ornate calligraphy, and something like Celtic knot work. At least eight inches across, and looping around the entire room, the circle would take days, if not weeks to inscribe. Weeks if not months to develop initially in its complexity. Sally felt again a twinge of her lack of understanding. That all of this was way beyond her.

"Come along," Laurie intruded on her reverie. "Now for a first year room and practice." Laurie turned off the lights and moved on down the basement hallway. The paths branching, stretching out into the distance. "Practice rooms follow the blue marker," Laurie commented, pointing to a blue line on the floor. There are arrows in the blue, pointing back the way they came. "The arrows all point to the main building. There are connecting passages to other buildings farther out, but don't go wandering. Its easy to get lost, and there are things here that aren't always friendly."

Before Sally could ask for clarification, Laurie stopped and hauled a door open. Similar, the corners, the lights, but the floor was scuffed up. I dull off-white and boxes of colored chalk sat in the middle. "This is going to sound silly, Miss Rivers, but we are going to have you practice drawing on the floor for a few days." Laurie smiled at her. It wasn't exactly a friendly smile, but it was polite. "Drawing circles and concentrating. Clearing your mind and cleansing the space. Steven says you have potential we need to tap. So we start with the basics, time and space. Your dossier says your parents tried to start you on understanding probabilistic magic. We can continue with that if you are comfortable." Laurie raised an eyebrow questioningly but moved right along. "A simple spell to control the result of a coin flip, once you get the space cleared.

Sally swallowed and looked at the floor, the chalk. She had a feeling she was going to get to know this room much too well. "Can we bring food and drinks in here?" 

Laurie actually smirked, "I like you went straight to practicalities. Yes, you can. I'm reserving this room for your exclusive use for the next two weeks. I'll be mentoring you in drafting circles and cleansing spaces. In two weeks I expect you will be able to cleanse this space for use in casting spells. If I need to make your fingers bleed and you can't look at chalk without crying, but you do it, then I will count that as a success."

Sally tried to figure out if that was a joke or not.

[[The Ashgrove School/zzz-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
[[The Ashgrove School/zzz-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]

