---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-03-take-a-walk/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV\|1.02a Lab work - Sally's POV]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV\|1.02b Lab Work - Laurie's POV]]

Walking away from his Intro to Thaumatological Theory class, Arthur really didn't want to go back to his room. He had a long break to his next class, but Michael might be there after all and all that, unpleasantness. The young man took a walk toward the woods. The North Carolina woods were deep and thick and the mountains seemed to run on forever. He followed the white gravel trail that ran along the edge of campus past the lake and listened to the breeze ruffling the surface of the water gently. Insects buzzed. For a city boy, this was deep wilderness as far as Arthur was concerned. Central PArk was as far into the wilds as he ever gotten previously. Well that and an off-roading trek in Turks and Caicos. He followed the well-marked trail as it turned into the woods, feeling the shadows of the trees cutting off the heat of the sun and the temperature fell. Not cold at all of course, but cool. Comfortable. The breeze dropped, the noises shifted muted and softer. The North Carolina mountains were cooler than the City, but warmer than winter, and Arthur just adjusted his backpack on his shoulders and kept walking.

He flipped his long bangs out of his eyes as he walked along the trail to a small meadow. Tall grass filled it and the trail just ended at the edge. The forest continued on, but Arthur couldn't see anything but trees. Arthur knew virtually nothing about trees. He knew some shed their leaves in winter and some didn't. He knew there was a name for it, but he didn't care. It wasn't important to him. It wouldn't get him a job, power, importance, recognition. They were just trees. Background.

In the distance, a branch snapped. 

Arthur spun about, but the trees blocked his vision past a few dozen feet. The path back seemed a long dark tunnel through the shadows. In that darkness, a flash of white shown around the side of a tree and then disappeared again. Arthur walked back toward the campus along the path. His eyes straining toward the flash of white. A squirrel maybe? 

*"Arrrrrthuuuurrrr,"* He heard his name in a breathy whisper behind him and he spun about, but there was nothing there. The shadows about him  suddenly seemed filled with menace. Filled with things he didn't understand. Arthur began to run for the safety of the sunlight and campus. Suddenly the understandable danger of Michael was preferable.

Arthur made it safely to the green grass of the campus grounds and he forsook the winding path to jog raggedly but directly across the green grass of the campus and away from the woods. In the shadows of the trees, the white lady stared after him, her golden eyes hungry. Another woman, all in black leather with black hair and black streaks under her eyes stepped out from behind another tree. They didn't speak, but they looked at each other briefly. Overhead, a crow screamed in the silence of the forest.

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.04 Dinner Conversation\|1.04 Dinner Conversation]]

[[The Ashgrove School/zzz-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]

