---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-04-dinner-conversation/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.03 Take a walk\|1.03 Take a walk]]

Akari led Sally downstairs to the House dining hall. Dinner started early and ran late. The house was so large it was virtually impossible to feed everyone at the same time. Even at 5 o'clock, the dining room was quite full and loud. Dining had been open for a half hour already, and people were already wrapping up dining and getting out. The tables bore little resemblance to those in works of fiction. No long tables running the length of the room and food appearing magically on your plate. The outer perimeter of the room had narrow tables with chafing dishes of hot foods, and trays of breads and cheese, fruits. Like some elegant dining buffet. Students gathered what they wanted, sat at either round tables distributed through the room's center or a row of tables across a stage elevated a few feet high on one end of the room. 

Up on those higher tables, an older man was sitting and talking with a few upperclassmen over their meal. "That is [[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]], proctor of [[The Ashgrove School/Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Cthuga\|The House of Cthuga]]. It isn't uncommon to run across the heads of the various Houses at different houses during mealtimes. They like to socialize and meet more students than just their own," Akari's quiet voice made it necessary for Sally to hunch down a bit to catch her commentary as they stood in line for the food. "That House has students who can shape magic, raw and quickly. They make excellent warriors. Many of the Wolves are drawn from their House."

"Wolves?" Sally asked to clarify. "Like umm..."

"One of the student groups. There will be a fair this weekend in the main building. The Wolves guard the Ways. The method I went home to see my mother? You'll start learning about it next year." Akari waved to a girl sitting with friends and eating. The girl smiled brightly and waved back, then she pointed to Sally while looking at Akari, who nodded back. The girl at the table gave her a thumbs up and went back to eating.

"Uhh," Sally started to comment, really confused. 

"My roommate last year. She also was a new student and I walked her through the school year. We remain good friends. She merely wished to know if you were my 'new student' this year. I hope you do not mind my letting her know, but it would be rude not to answer her." Akari's voice was very calm and unruffled. She picked up a plate as she got to the front of the line.

"Oh, oh that makes sense yes. Thank you. Of course you can tell folks I'm new, hardly a secret." Sally chuckled and took her own plate. "This is all just so... different, I'm sorry if I am being slow."

"Not at all," Akari smiled and took some roast chicken and rice. "You have been here only a day. You are still finding your way. It is my honor to assist, even as I was assisted. When we are done, I hope we can remain friends, even as we move on out into the world." She took a roll and two butter packets. "I... do not have many friends."

Sally looked at the calm and petite Akari stunned a moment, and then thought of how deferential she was yesterday. How quiet she was. Things started to fall into place. "You mentor new students so you can expand your friend group?" Sally smiled and took a pork chop. "That is brilliant Akari. I'll have to try that myself."

Akari blushed and looked away. "I shall find us two seats and perhaps some new folks for you to meet." She weaved off into the crowd between the tables and Sally collected some vegetables onto her plate.

"Good to know even the most put together people here are still human," Sally muttered and searched the tables for her roommate. She spotted Akari halfway toward the front of the room at a mostly empty table with two others. Boys. She recognized one from TT. Christopher? 

"Time to go make friends I guess." Sally plunged into it.

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.05 Dining Hall etiquette\|1.05 Dining Hall etiquette]]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Akari Sakai\|Akari Sakai]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher (last name)\|Christopher (last name)]]




