---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-07-dueling-loyalties/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.06 Taking full advantage\|1.06 Taking full advantage]]

Saturday was a relief to sleep in a bit. Classes had only been going three days, but already Sally was tired. Two hours a day with Miss Vance in the work rooms on top of her classes, trying to socialize. Just adapting to a new school was mentally challenging. 

And the flag had been stolen. That stressed her out some too even though she wasn't even in the House when it happened. She came back from two hours of cold concrete under her to find the House in an uproar on Friday afternoon. The space over the fireplace was empty. The only consolation was they had the flag from the House of Endless Circles, so it would be a net zero for them. 

Saturday promised the Fair of Student groups and the Dueling exhibition. Sally sat up in bed and saw Akari had already left. Sally had gotten really used to her new friend in the last three days, but Akari was a member of the Arcanum, and they had a booth they were running that day. Akari couldn't escort her 24/7. Sally got out of bed and got cleaned up and dressed. After three days she was perfectly capable of finding food on her own, she hoped. 

The hallway outside her room was relatively quiet. Sally shared a bathroom with another pair of girls on the other side, but she hadn't run into them yet. Either Akari was running interference or they were quiet, or maybe they kept odd hours. Sally didn't know, but she figured she'd find out soon enough. A weight she didn't realize she had been carrying had been coming off her shoulders these last few days. Sally went to the stairwell and downstairs. Things might be weird here, but it was a weird she could cope with. 

Eggs and bacon with toast and dining alone. A little weird, but again, a weird she could cope with. There were people in the dining hall. Eating, drinking coffee. The place was half empty. The whole building felt half empty. 

*"I saw my mother this morning,"* Sally recalled Akari saying. Could it be the upperclassmen went home for the weekends? That would make sense as to why the House was dead.  

Sally dumped her dishes in the bin and walked outside. The morning was already hot. August in the South was going to take a little getting used to. She wandered toward the main building and stopped, dead in her tracks. 

A bubble, like a soap bubble curved up from the grass in front of the building. A number of students were gathered around, cheering as flashes of light went off and an arc of light soared up high and struck the bubble. It held and flared like a firework. 

Wizards were dueling.

"How cool IS this place?" Sally asked no one in particular and went to go watch her first wizard duel.

---

The grass was well trampled down as the two students circled inside the bubble. Both held wands, real wands! They watched each other carefully and one flicked their wrist. The man's wand launched a spear of light that the woman deflected almost casually and it soared into the bubble behind her and made another firework. Her riposte streaked like a curveball and he had to dance away from it, getting tagged by a second blast she let loose. 

When he got tagged, the bubble popped and half the crowd cheered. The young man shook his head smiling and crossed the field to shake her hand.  They walked off and another pair moved into place. The Journeyman Steven was apparently officiating. The two new wizards bowed to each other slowly and formally. Steven asked a low question and they both nodded, again formally. Then they locked eyes. A moment later a new bubble started forming from the grass around them, growing upwards even as Steven was stepping back. 

The bubble closed and Steven yelled out, "First Touch has been called. Ten paces, turn and fire at will." The pair turned their backs on each other and Steven called out a count of ten. The pair walked in opposite directions and on ten they spun and both launched early shots. Rough and unaimed neither were close. The first pair had been strategic. This pair went for volume, blast after blast hammering away but neither had decent aim. Finally one stopped jogging, stood and aimed for a moment even as two blasts nearly hit him, and cut loose. The shot went true even as the other tried to move out of the way. The bubble popped and there was more cheering.

Sally watched all of this with something approaching awe. This was every movie she enjoyed, every videogame, and it was real?! Even as she watched the pair leave the field, two more stepped up. One held a staff instead of a wand and Sally walked around to the side to get a better look at what was happening. 

Steven again asked questions, the results were all very formal. The bubble, what had Tim called it a partition? It went up. Steven uttered a ten count. On ten the girl with the wand lashed out like lightning. Sally couldn't believe how fast she lashed out the jabbed flash of lightning burned Sally's eyes and the blast hit the boy with the staff dead on. 

The bubble held. 

Sally blinked, "What happened?" she asked out loud, confused. Inside the partition, a thread of light joined the staff to the wand. A pulsing throb marked a spot between them. Sally's eyes went from the boy to the girl with the wand. She didn't look happy. Then she looked scared as power pulsed along the thread and the lurid light raced down the thread toward her wand. She grimaced and the light slowed, then she broke of and spun aside. The light flashed past her and slammed into the partition in the largest flare yet. The boy with the staff stood there, waiting. He didn't attack, he just watched as the girl sidled slowly aside, and as soon as she touched the bubble it dissipated. 

"Forfeit!" Yelled Steven from the sidelines. "We'll take a short break, more going on in the main building, and the duelists will be out here talking and practicing. Enjoy!"

Sally wanted to visit Akari at the [[Arcanum \|Arcanum ]] in the main building, but she really wanted to learn how to duel. Sally started to walk to toward Steven, but paused at the line in the grass where the partition had been. She looked t the grass but it was just grass. She looked about and other were walking through the grass so she sucked it up and walked across the grass straight to Steven.

"Miss Rivers," Steven smiled brightly as she walked up to the table set up with papers and signup sheets. His stubble looked more like a beard in the morning light. "Enjoy the show?" 

"Very much sir. Um, I was wondering how freshman did in dueling?" Sally asked very hopefully. 

Steven grinned and shook his head, amused. "Better than older students who don't start until later, but the freshman have to work at it." He winked and nodded at the table. "Practice schedule is over there. See if you have time, then come join us in the evenings. We will get you going in no time." He started to turn away, then turned back, "You are going to ask about wands, not yet. We'll get you sorted out in time. You have reading and practice to get to before then."

Sally was a mix of apprehensive and excited. Oh yay, more homework? She went to the table as Steven spoke with other freshmen. She took flyers with practice times and booklets with rules and codes for dueling and details on the ritual involved. there was even a discussion on wands versus something called a rod, and the staff she saw. Sally clutched the papers in her hand and headed inside the main building.

