---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-setting/1-11-home-again/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Setting/1.10 Breakthrough, no not like that\|1.10 Breakthrough, no not like that]]

Sally hadn't been into the woods past the lake yet. Two weeks and she had been all over the main building and down into its basement. All over her House, visited two other houses, seen a series of Wizardly duels. 

They had forests in Pennsylvania. Nothing new there. Or so she thought. 

Akari led the way, her petite frame had a small daypack and a short walking stick made of wood. Sally didn't ask what kind. The path led around the lake in the morning light of Saturday and into deep shadows where the trees crowded out the yellow-gold. The white gravel stood out nicely under their feet as they travelled and Akari reminded her one last time. 

"Once we are on [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]], think about where we are, NOT where we are going. I have maps laid out for our trip and I expect we will get within three miles of your house on the first leg. Going somewhere you yourself don't know well if always inaccurate at first. Let me get us there."

Sally grunted an acknowledgement. She was happy to let Akari navigate as she tried to sort out how Chris' crude flub and how he seemed to feel about it made HER feel. She wasn't sure. 

The path ended in a meadow of tall grass ringed by trees. Tall dense forest all about. Akari confidently consulted a compass, then trudged off to the right, straight toward the trees through the meadow. Between two trees was a minimal clearing, barely a game trail, but as the re-entered the forest it widened up some and they walked along. Akari consulting her compass regularly and looking at the path and the trees. After a few hundred yards she stopped and took Sally's arm. She headed off trail into the brush and after a minute of wading through the brush, emerged onto a parking lot, empty on an early Saturday morning. Akari consulted her phone. 

"GPS is almost magic," Akari muttered, then nodded. "3 miles, not too bad. Could have done better."

Sally looked at the road an gasped. "We... we're just off campus. My parent's campus. We live right down that way." Sally pointed to the left. 

Akari laughed, "So you didn't believe me? 3 miles. Let's get back on [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]]. I can get us closer."

Akari waded back through the brush, dragging Sally along. Once back on the trail, Akari consulted her hardcopy map again, noting where they had come out in relation to Sally's house. Akari pressed onwards another fifty yards or so, checking carefully and slowly, until she drug Sally off the Ways again, through the brush. 

The pair emerged at the end of a residential street. Sally gasped, "That's my house!" She started jogging for it. "Come on, I want you to meet my mom!"

The Doctors Rivers were very happy to meet Akari. The school had let them know Sally was coming home with an escort and they treated Akari like family. The girls had eaten at Ashgrove, but Akari stayed a little bit to make a good impression before bowing. 

"While I have time, as it is early yet on the East Coast, I should go. I shall collect Sally Sunday, just after lunch, if that is acceptable?"

Sally gave the shy and reserved Akari a big hug. "Thank you," she whispered. "I needed this."

Akari returned the hug after a minute. "It is my honor to aide a friend in need. Enjoy your family. I shall go visit mine as well."

The Sally's mother escorted Akari to the door. A kind looking woman with bright blonde hair and a ready smile, Akari had read the file provided by the School when pairing off with new students. She knew to be polite and careful. She was not prepared though for a warm embrace from her. 

"Tell your father he should visit us. Alan has a bottle of whiskey he's saving for a special occasion, and a visit from an old friend would qualify." 

Akari tried to process that behind her dark eyes and bowed again. "I shall relay the message."

Sally's mother smirked. "Your mother's daughter alright. Be well Akari and thank you."

Akari walked back toward the entrance to the Ways, wondering, how did their parents know each other, and did the school know when they were paired off?

