---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-01-what-the-journeyman-saw/"}
---

*Several days earlier, the day of orientation*

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]] had collected his three students from the airport. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]] had been easy to spot. The bright blue hair stood out. He hoped she'd outgrow that desire at some point in the next few years. Nothing wrong with expressing individuality, but a certain degree of anonymity was preferable in their world. 

He knew that better than most any other mage. 

He scratched idly at his stubbled cheek as [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]] struggled to get his bag into the back of the Suburban. Steven could have done it for him, easily. Arthur expected him to. That was only one reason why he didn't. The sooner they broke Arthur of his bad habits the better. Steven had been privy to the dialog between the School and Arthur's mother. His father didn't stoop to speaking to 'menials' and left the conversation to her, but she was just a mouthpiece. They were furious at his posting in [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Walking Trees\|The House of Walking Trees]]. They wanted him in [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage\|The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage]]. Wasn't going to happen, and they knew why. Arthur would have to earn it, if he could. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Hastening Sunset\|The House of Hastening Sunset]] was within reach with work. Steven had seen students rise to [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Blood and Bone\|The House of Blood and Bone]] even. If Mister Villareal wanted to be a little dick about it, well Steven felt bad about that but Steven had a the bigger stick and the Cabal knew it. The more they flailed impotently, the better it would be for Ashgrove, but Steven didn't have to like it.

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]] was the third. Looking like nothing more than a vapid social media influencer with gucci tastes, Tilly tried very hard to be an enigma. Steven's magic disassembled her facade casually though. Steven had a lot of practice at seeing what wasn't there. Her vapid glances concealed several decently well worked spells held tightly in her core. A skill normally reserved for second semester freshman year. The fact she had them, and not as charms someone else had worked, meant she was already well advanced. She'd been training for some time. Steven dissected an energy spell, a defensive shield, and a mental 'bored now' distraction spell. He assessed that none were a threat to him or the others, and he left then there. The entire inspection taking only a few moments. 

He got them in the car and off he drove. The vehicle had several enchantments woven into it for just this sort of trip, and as he drove along, he let the information they were gathering filter into his awareness, even as he wove in and out of traffic heading west on I-40. 

As expected, Sally had a deep reserve of strength, but her 'feel' for magic was only moderately above average. Trained up, she'd be a powerhouse. If she broke through and got a real feel for magic she'd be terrifying. The Cabal would fight to get her. Steven would have to carefully cultivate her strengths. 

Arthur had a similar feel for magic as Sally and his strength was exactly as previously measured. His self-centeredness would keep him from reaching out to others though. He was in his own way on making connections. Steven didn't figure he'd ever get there without a lot of therapy, which he wouldn't want to get in the first place. 

Tilly tried hard to remain an enigma, but no amount of amateur work would conceal what the Masters wanted revealed. There were no less than three spells laid on Tilly to conceal and redirect. One even succeeded in blocking one spell in the Suburban from reading her. At a red light, Steven took a moment to clear his mind and a lance of directed magic chiseled away at the shield, cracking it open and letting it dissolve. Tilly's father had placed it, he found, which explained a bit. Ever socially conscious, the Tillingham's were an old European family in the Cabal's Corporate side. Protecting his 'little girl' was likely second nature to them. Steven let the spells ruffle through her aura unhindered now, and he extracted her full assessment. Her strength was less than expected, which meant her skill had to be commensurately higher to hold the spells. Steven adjusted the expectation to Junior year on her Thaumatological understanding, and flagged her as a danger to herself and others. He'd have to have her watched at first.

The road smoothed out as they got onto the grounds and Steven parked in line. He got out and got the rest moving. There was yelling to be done, and moving the herd along. Soon they be able to sort themselves out, but that day was not today. 

As the last of the students moved out toward their Houses and getting settled in, Steven looked up at [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]] leaning on the railing two stories up in the entry hall. He met her eyes and his face didn't betray a thing as he smiled politely at her then moved on. Some days were easier than others, being him. Navigating the Master's egos, Laurie's emotions, the near 250 new students? He'd rather be dodging semis on I-40. 

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.02 - Politics\|2.02 - Politics]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]]
