---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-03-just-a-little-something-to-take-the-edge-off/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.02 - Politics\|2.02 - Politics]]

Steven had an office nearby. It was actually larger than Master Hornblatt's but he shared it with Laurie. Steven knew where she was though. Not here. He slipped inside and went out the back door that went to his room. The ever shifting network of gates connecting offices and homes of various Masters was a point of contention politically. Some thought it compromised security. Others were fine as long as the homes in question were on the grounds. 

The agreement was, a given office had a gate to a given home on the property. Past that it was up to the Master to decide what they wanted to do for a residence. Steven had an apartment in one of the outer buildings that he slipped away to and down to the fridge to get a plastic bag kept cool. He was back in his office a moment later, and moving down the hall at a serious walking speed. He hit a stairwell and descended down into the basement levels. As it was midday he went ahead and went down to the third sub-basement. 

Walking along the dimly lit corridor where storage of incidentals and connecting passages to other buildings resided, Steven whistled even as his fingers danced on the bag in his hand, magic coaxing warmth into the bag and its contents. Many folks were rightly terrified of what lived down here. 

"Hello Steven," the dry whisper came from behind him. Steven didn't even stutter in his stride. 

"Master Gadwell," Steven's voice was chipper. "The new students have arrived. You know the drill I presume after all these years?" He held out the bag in front of him and a disheveled looking woman with bloodshot eyes stepped out of a side corridor to take it. 

"Of course, I only pretend to be a drunken idiot, you know that, Steven." Her voice laced massive amounts of scorn onto his name. She lifted the bag to her mouth and two prominent and sharp canines sank through the plastic easily. She drained the bag dry in moments, then folded it in thirds and handed it back. "I shall assess all of the new students this evening. I shall report all anomalies in written form to the Masters by dawn." 

"Thank you, Gabrielle." Steven's voice was softer on her name. Politely considerate. "Your senses are by far the keenest-"

"Oh shut it Steven. You and I both know there is no need to stroke my ego. That died with me. What you and yours did to me ages back made me useless as a predator. I am a tame housecat that plays at hunting." She quivered with rage. 

"Don't go there Gabrielle. Please? You know it will just hurt us both. We have our jobs to do and you asked for this, before you turned." Steven's voice was pained.

"I know, I know. It's the fresh blood above. I can smell it down here. The monster inside me is rattling the bars of its cage and it hurts now and then is all. Even after three hundred years the beast still wants out. I'll be fine." She didn't look fine, but Steven smiled at her. 

"I know you will be, just like I know you'll have fun terrorizing the fresh meat." Steven chuckled. "I have to go back up, but I'll check in on you just before sundown all right?"

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Gabrielle Gadwell\|Gabrielle Gadwell]], Master of the magics of UnDeath and 300 year old vampire faded back into the shadows as Steven headed back upstairs. He had one last visit to make before he caught up to the orientation.

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.04 - Chaos Theory\|2.04 - Chaos Theory]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
