---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-04-chaos-theory/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.03 - Just a little something to take the edge off\|2.03 - Just a little something to take the edge off]]

The office wing was empty when Steven got back upstairs. Everyone was expected to make an appearance at the big orientation. Everyone meant everyone so he wasn't surprised to hear the squeak of chalk on an old fashioned black board as he walked to [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Steven Pringle\|Steven Pringle]]'s office. Before he even reached the door the man's voice called out, "Yes, yes, Steven, I know. Come in anyways."

The office was neat and tidy, one wall covered in a blackboard and equations, notations, mathematical signs, astrological signs, several large question marks. The man scribbling with the chalk was finishing up a fresh set of equations under one. His sleeves were rolled up, his hair a tangle, chalk on his black pants. "I'll be done here in a moment and Francis talks enough for any two men. I'm there for show this year." He put down the chalk and dusted off his hands. "The Cabal asked for some input on this. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Cabal/The Technorati\|The Technorati]] have some new encryption they are using. It's novel so they wanted an advance on cracking it before they needed to get at it. Reverse engineering an aetheric cipher is fun." 

The short man rolled his sleeves down and the chalk fell off his pants like rain. Creases in his shirt undid themselves and his hair smoothed perfectly into place. He shot out an arm and his coat flew off the chair back and onto his arm. He got the other one on himself.

"The man who showed us how to unscramble an egg," Steven chuckled as Master Pringle was cleaned up in moments. 

The Master gave the Journeyman a wink and nodded for the hall. "Let us not keep Cecelia waiting. She'll insist on one of her lectures." Master Pringle rolled his eyes as Steven led the way out and down the hall toward the nearest outside door. 

"Master Pringle, I had a question," Steven ventured as they stepped outside. "Of any of the Masters, I would think you had the best chance of deducing the identity of the Secret Master. Has the thought crossed your mind?"

"Oh many times Steven, many times." Master Pringle chuckled as they headed for the amphitheater. "But then I recalled my elementary risk/reward calculations. Pissing them off is a big risk for what could very well be a negligible reward. I like my job here actually. I would have made a decent academic if the Cabal hadn't snapped me up for applied research. I write my own ticket here for the most part, and I try not to stir up controversies." He patted Steven on the shoulder as they approached the crowd. "Keep that in mind son, and I'll keep an eye out for your back. You understand?"

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]] nodded politely as Master Pringle headed for the stage. He stayed back behind the mass of students arrayed on the steps of the outdoor theater running down the hillside to the lake below. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]] sidled up next to him. He could smell her perfume. 

"What was that? Or should I ask?" She quietly interposed. Her dark hair a half head below his, he looked down into her dark eyes set in her pale face. 

"Keeping options open," the Journeyman replied to his fellow second. "The question is, was I doing it with him, or he with me? I'm not certain." He shook his head as [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Francis Hornblatt, Esq.\|Francis Hornblatt, Esq.]], Master of the Day, began his introductory speech right on time.

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.05 - No politicking, please\|2.05 - No politicking, please]]