---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-05-no-politicking-please/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.04 - Chaos Theory\|2.04 - Chaos Theory]]

Steven watched from the back as Master Hornblatt gave the introductory address to the assembled student body. Three quarters of the students had heard it, or variations on it, before, but this was Master Hornblatt's first time giving it. A member of the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Academics/Academics\|Academics]], [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Francis Hornblatt, Esq.\|Francis Hornblatt, Esq.]] loved a captive audience to lecture to and tonight he had the student body of the largest magical school on Earth as a captive audience. 

Steven tried not to smell the perfume Laurie was wearing as she hovered right next to him and he checked his watch. Steven knew many things that the newest Master did not, and one of them would most likely be showing up shortly. 

"While all factions provide funding and resources for Ashgrove and your education, it is important to note that it is the Academics that have the personal resources and experience to make it a reality," said the Master. Right after, lightning split the clear sky and shattered the podium the Master was standing at. Francis was tossed backwards a few feet and to the floor, though he was in fact obviously unharmed. Expecting it at some point soon, though even Steven was surprised at the speed at which Master Hornblatt had run the point of advertising his own faction, Steven spoke a *word* and called out, his voice ringing across the amphitheater.

"The Secret Master does not encourage politicizing one faction over another Master Hornblatt. You are recommended not to mention any of them in public or in gatherings. No one knows exactly how close an eye they keep on things. Everyone please sit down and calm yourselves. Thank you." Steven let his voice die down, and the commotion settled almost as fast as it began. Only the first years had started at the commotion, though the last two addresses had not been marred by any controversy. But then, they hadn't been given by a new Master. Steven had not made a friend today, but his current job was to be the voice and hands of the Secret Master. He had known that Master Hornblatt would be difficult tonight. He knew how the Secret Master would likely react. 

Master Hornblatt stood back up and looked at the shattered podium. Steven knew the Master's personal protections would have had to be sufficient to avoid personal, physical damage, but his pride had been wounded and Master Hornblatt had a very large amount of pride. He took pride in his pride. The Secret Master had humbled him. This was going to be a long year.

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.06 - Office Hours\|2.06 - Office Hours]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]