---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-06-office-hours/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.05 - No politicking, please\|2.05 - No politicking, please]]

*goes between [[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1. 01 - What is magic?\|1. 01 - What is magic?]] and [[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.07 Dueling Loyalties\|1.07 Dueling Loyalties]]*

Steven sat in his office, actually working. Some people forget that Journeymen are still technically students. They may be the equivalent of Masters or Doctoral candidates, but students. They have their own work to do, on top of teaching classes, sitting in on meetings, listening to irate Masters vent in a closed door sessions to the other Masters who Steven could see were trying not to smile. 

He put the book of ancient Babylonian pottery aside, the page he was on marked, and pulled out a different volume on African Spirits. He was getting into a better understanding of Anansi and his role in trickery, similar to Coyote and Loki when there was a quiet rapping at the door. 

Sally stood there, her hair blue as a natural gas flame and looking slightly awkward. "Come in Miss Rivers, how can I help you today?" Steven nodded to the chair next to his desk. 

Sally stepped inside and looked around the office. Two desks, one empty. She paused and looked at the empty desk a moment longer and furrowed her brow.

"Miss Vance's," Steven commented mildly. "She has a desk here as well, though she isn't in at the moment. Leave the door open though if you are at all concerned. I don't want to stress you more than your current work is already doing."

Sally blushed and sat down. "Um, thank you sir. Steven! Sir, I mean..."

The poor girl looked like she was going to fall through her chair. "Call me whatever you want Sally. Whatever makes you comfortable. Take a breath, organize your thoughts. Tell me when you are ready, I'm going to go back to picking apart some stories from old African folklore." He put his head back down to the book and ignored Sally, ostensibly. In practice he observed her closely, watched her calm herself down. 

"I'm sorry for that. I grew up around older Academics and they were all so formal and stuffy and you... aren't. It's a little weird for me." Sally said it softly, matter of fact.

"But you didn't know they were [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Academics/Academics\|Academics]] in the magical sense, just in the, well," Steven chuckled, "The Academic, sense. Things are a little different here, but there is still a rigid hierarchy, don't worry. I'm just a student like you. Think of me as your T.A. The teaching assistant who does all the grunt work for the Professor for no more pay." Steven gave sally a smirk and the girl returned it, relaxing more. 

"Thank you. I was curious, but didn't want to stand up and ask in class and look stupid. My parents taught me some, well Magic magic, but I wanted to know about the other types." Sally sounded anything but stupid, but he understood her reticence. 

"Well, there are some nineteen schools of magic currently being broadly studied. Think of them each as separate college degrees. It isn't that clear cut, but it helps to visualize. Thaumatology is the study of Magic theory itself, you can't do magic just using Thaumatology, but it is like programming a computer, you can read someone else's work, or design something yourself. The different schools are each a specific set of tools that build off off your personal feel for magic and let you do the things you imagine in Thaumatology." 

Steven's voice was smooth and relaxed and Sally found herself following along and nodding, understanding his analogies even as she knew her understanding of magic itself was years away.

"Now Magic is one of the nineteen schools. It is the practice to Thaumatology's theory. If Thaumatology is a book on plumbing, then Magic is your set of plumbing tools and the knowledge of how to use them. Sadly, we mostly wind up using it against other magicians." 

Sally grinned. 

"Now there are eighteen others, right?" Steven pulled out a class list. "I always get them out of order." He looked at the list and read off. "Air, Animal, Body Control, Communication and Empathy, Earth, Fire, Gate, Healing, Illusion and Creation, Knowledge, Light and Darkness, **Magic**, Mind Control, Movement, Plant, Sound, and Water." Steven leaned back in his chair and waited to see if she would call him out. He figured she would, but it was worth waiting to see. 

It took several seconds. 

"That's Only seventeen." Sally looked at his questioningly. 

Steven smiled, "So you've read the class list and compared it to the references in the TT class notes. Usually it takes advanced students to handle the Path of Spirit. The Magics of the Soul. Ghosts, liches, vampires, mummies, zombies, ghouls. They are all real." Steven smiled as mild shock colored Sally's face. "We even have a vampire on the staff here. Master Gadwell. You will likely meet her at some point." Steven's mild eyes smiled as Sally digested this, and he hoped that reveal was sufficient. 

Sally nodded, gathering herself together and stood up. "Thank you Si- Thank you Steven," she forced herself to say. "I appreciate your time. I'll see you in class tomorrow." She saw herself out.

"You didn't tell her the whole truth." Steven turned and looked at Laurie and her mess of a desk with papers everywhere and a tall water bottle she sipped out of. 

"Daath may not be real, and even if it is, it isn't worth hurting a first year student's mind over." Steven shrugged and went back to his book. 

"Before there was anything, there was Daath, and Daath was everything and nothing." Laurie muttered. "Or so the Secret Master says."

"Well we both know he doesn't get everything right," Steven muttered, focusing on Anansi's tales.

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.07 - A brief conversation among equals\|2.07 - A brief conversation among equals]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
