---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-07-a-brief-conversation-among-equals/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.06 - Office Hours\|2.06 - Office Hours]]

Steven walked the basement corridors late at night. Technically there were no off hours, but students were reluctant to come down here after sundown. Steven chuckled to himself about their reactions to Master Gadwell and walked a meandering path to a set of work rooms set aside for Journeymen. He had one reserved just for his use. A luxury, but one the other Journeymen, Laurie excluded, conceded he and Laurie were due. Being the representatives of the Secret Master was an ongoing burden, and small consolations like this were welcome. 

He stepped inside and scanned the room. It was similar to the senior work rooms. Same circle, same lights, same cabinets. 

Steven was an old hand at this stuff though. His magics twigged to the reality before he had opened the door. 

"Care to explain yourself Laurie?"

The illusion in the corner shimmered and she appeared. "I was cloaked, sight and sound, completely, and I made sure there was as neutral a smell to me as possible, so how did you know?" Her dark eyes flashed as she responded in low harsh tones. 

"I'm not a student like the first years Laurie. Now I have some things I'd like to work on. May I please have the room I reserved?" Many things are better off done in private, and magic is one of them.

Laurie stared at him. He could see she was torn between complying and ripping him a new orifice. He smiled softly and simply said, "Please" again. She stalked out of the room silently and was invisible again as she left the room. Steven closed the door and checked the wards he had emplaced in the walls. He rubbed his face and sighed heavily. "Too much all at once," he grumbled but got to the center of the room and closed his eyes. The entire school was laid out in his mind's eye and he spent a few minutes letting his awareness check on things. He observed Laurie in the hallway about to cross paths with Master Gadwell and nodded to himself. 

"Pieces on the board, moving as desired," he muttered before centering on this spot here in the work room and he began to work his magic. Thoughts of Laurie and her dark angry eyes currently and temporarily banished in the rush of the Work. 

---

Laurie stalked through the halls a silent and invisible specter of rage and frustration. She was so wrapped up in herself that she almost didn't see [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Gabrielle Gadwell\|Gabrielle Gadwell]] step out of the shadows ahead. The Master looked drunk, but Laurie knew that was a front to disarm and confuse. 

"Master," Laurie managed to sound polite and composed. "How are you this night?"

Gabrielle looked at the non-space where Laurie hid and raised an eyebrow, dropping the act. "Manners child. Show yourself? I'm doing fairly well, thank you for asking. I can tell you aren't though. Your spirit rages. Care to talk about it?"

Laurie faded into view. "Ma'am. Sorry for the illusion. It's a habit."

The Master of Undeath nodded, "You hide, from others, from yourself." She shrugged. "I can smell your boiling blood though. As one woman to another, pull yourself together. Don't let anyone have this sort of power over you."

Laurie took a deep breath and calmed herself. "Yes ma'am. Apologies."

Gabrielle chuckled, "Nonsense. You are young. While Master Cecilia might seem more a mother figure, that is a function of aging, rather than age. I was ancient when Cecelia was born. I have seen this played many times before. Experience. You'll do fine, or not, but if you can't control yourself, you magic will always be tainted by it."

The younger woman, much younger she realized, listened attentively. Master Gadwell was a vampire. Hundreds of years old and a wealth of personal experience Laurie couldn't hope to comprehend. Of course she spent a decent amount of that time an amoral, unethical predator that saw humanity as cattle. Laurie bowed her dark head and muttered, "Ma'am."

"Go on, you have work to do I'm sure child. I have a few things to tend to myself this evening before it gets too late. Come see me though, if you ever want to talk. It does get lonely down here at times." Gabrielle Gadwell, Master of Ashgrove and vampire faded from Laurie's perception.  

Laurie waited a few moments then she too disappeared, leaving the corridor seemingly empty.

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.08 - The Minutia of Magic\|2.08 - The Minutia of Magic]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
