---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-and-errands/2-08-the-minutia-of-magic/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.07 - A brief conversation among equals\|2.07 - A brief conversation among equals]]

Knowing he wouldn't be distracted, Steven reached out with a hand at about halfway between elbow and shoulder height and made a motion. The best sleight of hand no one saw drew a book out of nowhere and he flipped it open to his bookmark, an old frayed piece of red silk. The writing on the page was quite legible if a little old-fashioned. His finger scrolled down the page as his eyes scanned the text and he nodded, closing the book and setting it on the cabinet in the corner. He opened the cabinet and rummaged in the small drawers. 

"Hephesimereth," he muttered as he dug through the trays on one larger pull out drawer. "It isn't Daath, but it approaches. Ashes, Mistletoe. Will have to do." He set a glass vial of ashes aside and a sprig of old mistletoe. 

"Need to get the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]] to do some harvesting of fresh one day soon. Now Phoubêl, Yelayel, Lord of Strife, I could smack you for sticking me with Laurie right now. I don't need the distraction. Cinnamon and hazel wood. Yes that will do." He set the pieces he selected aside and rummaged in a different compartment right next to that one. 

"Sahu. Good ole Sahu." Steven placed a chuck of gritty looking black rock down, and a reddish piece of wood, about three inches long by one next to the already acquired pieces. 

"Lastly Tepsisem,. Lady I need your image in the fire-sprite tonight." He dug out yet another piece of wood and a cheap makeup container.  

"Alright, now the fun." Steven gathered the elements he had selected and laid them out. Three pieces of wood in three of the cardinal directions and the mistletoe to the fourth. Next to the mistletoe spring he set the small rock. With a finger he dipped into the makeup container and it came back red. He smeared it on the rock and dusted it with the ashes from the vial and shook cinnamon on it as well. Steven dropped to sit on the floor and checked the assorted ingredients briefly one last time then closed his eyes and took several deep breaths. 

The lights in the room flickered but Steven didn't move. The wood smoked and turned to ash, the mistletoe withered and dried out, the stone glowed a cherry hot red and the scent of burnt cinnamon filled the room. He opened his eyes and sighed lightly, then rolled his neck and levered back up to his feet. He went back to the book and re-opened it, his finger finding a line already written on. He removed a pen from his shirt pocket and made a note under that line of the date and '[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Francis Hornblatt, Esq.\|Francis Hornblatt, Esq.]], opening speech', then put the pen away. Then he tucked the book away into the thin air. 

In the student work rooms there are tools for cleaning up. There are some in this room too. Instead of reaching for them, Steven snapped his fingers. The dust and stone were gathered up on a hard breeze and deposited into the trash.

Steven closed up his work room and turned off the lights. 

"I don't know why you don't let her get close," Master Gadwell said from the shadows outside the door. 

Steven looked at her and half smiled. "Of everyone in this place, you are the only one who actually would understand. Or are you planning on falling love with someone here sometime soon?"

"You aren't a monster Steven. I am. You know why I can't get close to anyone, even my discipline has limits." Gabrielle actually sounds sad about it. A note of wistful loss. "I am an addict, surrounded by my drug of choice. Loving anyone only hurts us both."

Steven nodded, his expression unchanged. "You and I are both monsters of different stripes. We both know why the Secret Master put us here too. So let's not hurt ourselves, or Laurie. She'll move on soon enough."

Gabrielle shook her head, "You may know magic, but you don't know women Steven. She deserves to know the truth, to make her own decision. Why else would the Secret Master have placed her and you together?"

Steven nodded to the Master, "He's often an idiot is why. Good night ma'am."

Without waiting for a response he turned and walked away. Insolent? Perhaps, but the vampire watched him go. 

"Oh Steven, you really do not know women," she whispered between razor sharpened teeth. "Laurie has it bad, and that is going to be a problem for you."

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven and Errands/2.09\|2.09]]