---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/z-reference/world-factions/the-cabal/the-cabal/"}
---

Originally a group concerned with amassing power as the voices behind the thrones of the Middle Ages, they have grown and divided as time passed. Now their primary splinter group are the EVPs of the world, directing their stooges in the CEO slots to do what makes them money and power. Unethical, amoral, hedonistic, the Cabal only cares about amassing power. The Politicals want political power, running countries and armies, the Corps want monetary power. They both want control of the Ways to use them to exploit both the future and the past. Fortunately the Cabal is not a monolithic organization. Since every member thinks THEY are the pinnacle of creation, it is fairly easy to play them off of each other. Still, having a member of the Cabal as an enemy is a serious problem. The Cabal does serve a useful purpose. They and their rank and file are actively suppressing knowledge of Magic and its access to the general population. The more magically powerful members tend to the political side, the weaker members to the corporate side.

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Cabal/Society of the Red Glove\|Society of the Red Glove]] is a social circle inside the Cabal. They ‘collect’ important movers and shakers in the magic world, looking to gain power through social means. You don’t have to be a member of the Cabal to be ‘collected’, but you do need to be in the Cabal to be in the Society. Membership has its benefits, in terms of wealth and power; of course, you need wealth and power to get your foot in the door.

The Cabal's arm of policing is the '[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Cabal/The Men in Black/Men In Black\|Men In Black]]’. Made famous by the movies, they existed long before in rumor and story. They travel the world, covering up magical issues that impinge on the awareness of people. Erasing memories primarily, or altering them. To be a member of the Men in Black (women are accepted too) is to be trained in the Path of Mind, and demonstrate capability of mass mental adjustment in the field. This makes them somewhat terrifying, but they all take an oath to protect the secrets of magic from the masses, and to not abuse their powers for personal gain. They are the police, the watchers who watch the magi. Not that that makes the others feel better. No one really trusts the Men in Black. They have magical tools for manipulating people and memories, and preservation of the secrets of magic takes priority. All it takes is one MiB to go rogue and hell could literally break loose.

Within the Men in Black are several loose organizations based on specialties.  The Opal Sentries are concerned with the identification and training of new mages. The Void Stewards explore and understand the realms and access to the Ways. While the Void Stewards are explorers and curious, the League of the Brilliant Seal is focused on dealing with extraplanar threats, see sealing them away as a priority. THey actively attack Fae activity without question. The Curators are conservative by nature; they worry about the abuse of magic and take steps to curb use they deem unseemly.


Originally a group concerned with amassing power as the voices behind the thrones of the Middle Ages, they have grown and shifted with the times. Now they are the EVPs of the world, directing their stooges in the CEO slots to do what makes them money and power. Unethical, amoral, hedonistic, the Cabal only cares about amassing power. They want control of the Ways to use them to exploit both the future and the past. Fortunately the Cabal is not a monolithic organization. Since every member thinks THEY are the pinnacle of creation, it is fairly easy to play them off of each other. Still, having a member of the Cabal as an enemy is a serious problem. The Cabal does serve a useful purpose. They and their rank and file are actively suppressing knowledge of Magic and its access to the general population. The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Cabal/The Men in Black/Men In Black\|Men In Black]] answer to their masters, for now. 