---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-01-the-devil-is-in-the-details/"}
---

"So the wood someone uses for a staff, wand, or rod depends on the kind of magic they do regularly." Christopher had been a little late getting back on Sunday, had apologized, and now Monday evening he and Sally were settled in a nook of one of the libraries scattered through the Main building. 

"You remember when Mr. Harwood said a Magician could draw on the ground, the air, the water deep under?" Christopher paused and looked at Sally and Sally nodded emphatically.

"Yeah, he said the idea was glossing over some stuff, but there was power. Like in the wood?" Sally's hair was pulled back in a ponytail and she had her tablet out to take the occasional note. 

"Sorta kinda? So this is like second year stuff, but, well," he sighed and rubbed his forehead. "Ok, don't laugh, but you know the zodiac, right? About it in general?"

Sally chuckled, "Taurus: Avoid dentists today, that Zodiac?"

Christopher's mouth twisted in wry amusement. He hadn't smiled much since coming home from his grandfather's, but he had brought a backpack full of stuff and a promise from his mother to send more on. "Yes, that zodiac. The original details out twelve different constellations shown when the world is in different parts of it's orbit around the Sun. But it is more than that. There are in each time of year, when that constellation is up, three different decans."

Sally's hand shot up. "Deacons? Like in a church?"

Chris did smile at that one, "No, decan, dek-ann, but no pause. Decan. Each decan covers a third of the zodiac sign, about ten days, and their power ebbs and flows as the year turns. Part of magic is learning to harness a decan to make magic easier. That is what Mr. Harwood was talking about. Grabbing power and using decans to make it easier."

"Okay," Sally narrowed her eyes. "What does that have to do with wood though?"

Chris pulled out a wand from his backpack. It was about a foot long and a light grayish-tan. "Places and things are associated with decans. While in a given time of year, everyone can access a specific decan, if you have something that relates to it, or are somewhere related to it, then you can access it even when it isn't that time. This is an ash wand." He handed it over to Sally. 

"The wood, ash, is associated with the decan Eneuth," Chris pauses. "I didn't name these." Sally giggled a moment then stifled it. "Enueth is the decan of elemental fire. Spells from the Path of Energy can use Enueth to enhance their potency, and an ash wood wand acts like a connection. Use the wand, get access to Enueth, make thing burn. 1, 2, 3. Got it?"

Sally nodded. "And if you were in a place associated with En-uth?"

"En-you-eth," Chris corrected her. "Yeah you get more. There are some diminishing returns. Part of Advanced Thaumatology is doing the calculations on that apparently. My cousin had it and he didn't enjoy it." Chris takes the wand back and puts it away in his backpack and rummages in it some more. "There are colors, woods, stones, metals. Apparently there are 'beings' too. Personifications of the decans. Advanced students can summon and talk to them, supposedly. I never have but I hear things." Chris looks up and sets a stone on the table in front of Sally. 

"You said your folks taught you a little Chance magic. I looked it up, Akhouiy. It's the primary decan for Chance. Casinos, wishing wells, fountains with coins where people make a wish. Chance builds up there. Some of the items associated with Akouhiy are four-leaf clovers, rabbits’ feet, upright horseshoes, dice, and stones with holes in them, worn away by water. There are a lot of stony beaches in the Puget sound, so I found you one."

Sally stared at the small rock like it was a three headed dog. "You did that? For me?" Her voice sounded small as squeaky, she hated when she sounded like that but right now all she could tell was that Christopher had gotten her a present, a magical present, and she had no idea how to respond. 

Chris zipped up his backpack. "Well I wasn't going to make you a wand when I didn't know how, and I can beachcomb easy enough. I didn't get you anything to hold it in or carry it with though. I didn't have a lot of time. Grandpa was holding court at supper and it ran late into the night. He's mad at the Technorati faction and wanted the whole family to know it and back him. Like I have a say in anything."

Sally could hear the frustration in his voice, but he was too far away to put a hand out for him. "All you can do is study and be there for your family I guess."

Chris smiled a little. "I guess. I worry though. I know we had a project with the Bulgars, the dark underbelly of the Technorati, and now this?" Chris shook his head. "I worry grandpa might have bitten off more than he can chew. We stay independent for a reason, much as we sometimes come to Ashgrove to learn and network." 

Sally chuckled softly. "You at least know what's going on. My folks kept me in the dark about all of this. I was completely ignorant and don't even know all these names of big groups!"

Chris just shook his head, "Ignorance is bliss Sally. They are sharks all of them and when they get their teeth into you, they don't let go. The Academics might be more lax about holding onto people, but they have their own ways of making life miserable for folks. Academics tried to drive our family away from our home back in the seventies. Made a big deal about environmentalism up our way and they introduced new species into out islands and got them declared 'endangered'. The Cabal tried to sideline us with the EPA, but Grandpa held them off with legal claims and doing some work for the Cabal. Playing them off the Academics, we still work with different groups when we really want to be left alone, but playing them off each other keeps them off of us."

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.02 - Fire and reload\|3.02 - Fire and reload]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher Bellingham\|Christopher Bellingham]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
