---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-02-fire-and-reload/"}
---

Chris and Sally sat on the concrete floor of the work room Sally had come to despise. Inside the circle, mind more or less centered, Sally concentrated on the spell that Chris had laid out for her from his father's notebooks. 

She was failing miserably, but as Chris had said, that WAS to be expected. 

"All dueling spells, the basic ones, are from the Path of Magic. Handling raw magic and using it for dueling is the safest way to avoid harming anyone." He had explained in the library. The warm library with the bright but indirect yellow light had been so much nicer than this antiseptic harsh white light and cold concrete. There was even a buzz from the fluorescent bulbs that irritated her ears.

Sally had yet to succeed with a spell from the Path of Magic. Her parents hadn't taught her anything about it and her TT class barely covered its existence. Magic in general was a thought exercise, with ritual aiding in focusing the mind. The Path of Magic spells in the Bellingham notes were all mental though. Completely. 

For an hour now Sally had been trying to make a 'Standard Dueling Attack' from the book. It was a new spell, in a new Path and it involved a new concept that both excited and terrified Sally. 

Conditional Spells.

The idea is to cast the spell and hold it until a specific word or gesture were used. Chris had explained that 'magic words' were nonsense, but complex words you won't say accidentally can be used as keys to spells you have held. 'Abracadabra' might be meaningless, but if you have a spell to unlock a door, then holding it until you get to a door and than releasing it by saying Abracadabra, then it looks like the words are magic, but it is just a kind of key to the magic.

It made sense to Sally, but Chris said that the number of spells a given person could hold was based on training, and Sally didn't have any really. So here she sat, concentrating like hell to cast a spell in a way she didn't really know, holding it until she said a key phrase in a way she wasn't certain of, and trying not to think about how she had spent the whole afternoon and evening with Chris. 

*We're just friends,* she kept telling herself. She didn't know how Chris felt about her, but he gave her a magic rock. Okay it wasn't 'magic' but it could be used to DO magic, but Chance magic and this was Magic magic and just like that, concentration shattered, she opened her eyes and gave up on the casting.

Chris was still kneeling on the stone next to her, his eyes closed in concentration as he kept casting. The Bellinghams learned Magic, the PATH of Magic, at an early age. That and Crossroads. Sally tried to think about what it would have been like to learn magic at an early age. Her parents just said they wanted her to have a 'normal' childhood, but she felt like there was more. Some reason they weren't telling her, to protect her. Or maybe her imagination was just going into over-drive to keep her from thinking of real problems. 

Like how she can't make the spells work. 

Chris' eyes opened. "Still not working?" His voice wasn't accusatory. No, he was supportive, concerned, but he wasn't a teacher and he had been doing it for a long time. He was House of Man Ascendent, but he was also a practiced mage and had played at duelling when she was playing with dolls. It was frustrating.

"No," Sally agreed. "I think I'll take a break before I start screaming and throwing things." She chuckled to cover her frustration, but Chris put his hand on hers where it rested on her knee. 

"I'm sorry I can't help more, but with practice it will happen Sally. Like any other skill. Reading, practice, experience. We can't speed it up." Chris' hand was warm and she looked into his eyes a long moment, then looked away. She stood up, pulling away from him, blushing lightly. 

"Yeah, I know. But not tonight. I should go do some reading for tomorrow's TT lecture." She smiled down at him as he got up off the concrete. "Not all of us learned this stuff early."

Chris chuckled good-naturedly. "Well not everything the family taught me was in line with Ashgrove, so I have to UNlearn a few things."

They turned out the lights to the work room and went to the stairs. In the distance, down dim corridors, a clicking sound echoed faintly, almost like tap shoes. The pair squinted into the distance but nothing resolved.

"You know, I kinda miss having Miss Vance with me down here. THis place gives me the creeps." Sally went into the stairwell and headed upstairs. 

In the distance, the tapping continued, fading into the distance.

[[3.03\|3.03]]
