---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-03-war-is-hell/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.02 - Fire and reload\|3.02 - Fire and reload]]

Sally watched as Tilly released a spell with a flick of her wand and a shouted "**Arcanus**!" A lance of light flashed across the field and slapped Steven square in the chest. There was a brilliant flare of light all over him and then he clapped. 

"Good shot Abagail," Steven complimented her. "We might want to work on speed next, but your aim was good."

Chris took the spot next and pulled out a wand. He went for speed and his aiming was minimal before he too called out "**Arcanus**!" and a lance hit Steven square in the chest with a similar flare of light.

"Good work Christopher. Speed and accuracy. Will serve you well in the ring and out in the world." Steven chuckled. "Alright Sally, you up for trying?"

Sally walked slowly out onto the field. Instead of the placement of Tilly and Christopher, she walked to a white chalk mark almost half the distance to Steven. 

"No shame Sally, we all start somewhere and practice to get accuracy and distance." Steven intercepted any comments from the students watching before they could be snide. "Now aim with the wand, see the path you want the light to travel, get the wand along the path and when they all align, say the word."

Sally sighted down the wand, a plain wood piece the dueling club had dozens of. Her eyes watched for the alignment of the tip of the wand, her hand and Steven. Long seconds passed as she got the placement just right and she almost prayerfully whispered, "Arcanus."

The light flared and slapped Steven's shoulder, but it WAS a hit and the student's watching applauded. Christopher was particularly loud, though Tilly was giving a perfunctory 'golf clap'. 

"A touch counts. We will keep working on aim Sally, and good job getting the spell cast. You are catching up nicely." Steven turned to the group and singled out another student, back to the longer distance though. 

Sally bit her lip as she walked off the field. She had cast a spell, and released it on command, AND hit her target. She was somewhere between incredulous and euphoric. Yes she sucked at aiming, but she HIT. 

And then Tilly HAD to comment. "Another twenty years you might be ready to defend too Sally?" She snickered and a few other catty girls, other Cabal kids, also laughed. 

Sally didn't have a posse or a clique or even friends besides Akari, Christopher, and Tim. And Tim wasn't a friend as much as Christopher's roommate who was around half the time. Unlike Sally, Chris really didn't need a minder to not get lost or study, or practice. There were other students without background like her at Ashgrove, but most were in other houses. They had had 'breakthroughs' on handling raw magic, or speed. Sally didn't have anything like that. She could barely work magic. Combined with being crapped on by Tilly it was enough to completely ruin her mood in moments.

Sally watched the practice and ignored Tilly until the practice broke up. She was going to find Chris and Leave when she heard her name. 

"Sally? Come over before you head out, please." Steven called to her and she went without hesitation to the Journeyman. "Hey, I know some of the students are difficult. The factions are always fighting, even here. You ARE doing well though. I don't want you to think otherwise."

Sally tried not to let her eyes water. "It just comes so easy to them," she started, but Steven raised a hand to stop her. 

"I wasn't going to say anything, but you need to hear something, something they probably don't realize, seeing as they are all fairly blind to the important things." Sally stopped and listened as Steven's voice took on the 'teacher' tone she recognized. 

"The breakthroughs are important to mages. Skill is critically important to mages. Understanding and analysis are all important to mages. You know this. THEY know this. Study and practice just take time. breakthroughs depend on the individual, but there is another component." Steven paused and gestured, "Walk with me."

Steven led the way away from the crowd, and down toward the lake. The placid waters were only ruffled by a light breeze as the sunset turned the air violet. 

"I suppose you wonder how it is that not everyone, even with teaching, can do magic?" Steven asked her. "Why only selected folks are brought to Ashgrove, why even some members of the old families aren't mages?"

Sally thought about it a moment and slowly nodded, "I suppose there has to be some other element?"

Steven nodded and sat on a bench overlooking the lake. He patted the bench and Sally sank down next to him. "They call it 'magery'. An individual's inborn talent for handling raw magic. There is a minimum amount needed to actually manipulate magic functionally, though someone without it can learn some magic even without that ability. Some."

"Let me guess, I have the bare minimum?" Sally responded despondently.

"No." Steven stated unequivocally. "You have the potential of a damned powerhouse. That is why your parents didn't even let on you might live in a world of magic. People like Tilly are going to be at their current level of power for most of the rest of their lives. They will learn tricks and shortcuts and manage to leverage that power some to appear capable." Steven turned to look at Sally as the stars came out. "You will hammer them flat casually IF you know what you are doing. It is my job to make sure you do, and you don't turn into a problem between then and now."

Sally blinked at him. "I.. I could barely cast that 'standard' spell from the book."

Steven waved a hand, "That spell is simple, as things go, but you lack practice and study to understand them clearly. Once you do you will cast it easily. That isn't the issue, the issue is you could also, with that same training cast a spell to strip magic off a Master. You could be perceived as a very real threat, or a valuable commodity. Now only the Master's and a few Journeymen have seen your assessment. But the Cabal has a group, the Opal Sentries. Their purpose is to observe and assess potential mages. Your parents kept you in Academic circles, but you are out in the world now, and as soon as an Opal Sentry has cause to inspect you, they will know."

Sally looked at Steven for long moments, and then forgetting her manners, said the only thing appropriate for such a revelation. 

"Fuck."

"Pretty much," agreed Steven. "So, you want some help?"

[[3.04\|3.04]]
