---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-04-tactics/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.03 - War is hell\|3.03 - War is hell]]

"Akari, I need your opinion on something." Sally had thought about how to broach the subject many times in the last two days. Late in the evening on a Saturday turned out to be good. They could stay up and sleep in if they needed, and there were no activities for the Arcanum to distract Akari. Sally had found out Akari had a boyfriend of sorts, but he was away this weekend on a school project out in the ways.

The petite Japanese girl swiveled her desk chair to face Sally sitting on the edge of her bed. She raised an eyebrow and smiled. Akari had become much more relaxed around Sally in the last few weeks. Sally hoped that would continue.

"I just need to confirm, first, you didn't know anything about me outside the personal information jacket when you asked to be my roommate. Did you?" Sally asked hopefully.

"No," Akari furrowed her brow. "I didn't know anything except what you had put in the welcome questionnaire. Why do you ask?"

"I needed to know how much I could trust you, I'm sorry. Mr. Van der Meer, told me some things and I'm sorry I doubted you." Sally bit her lip. "I need to know if I can trust Christopher, and I don't have a lot of experience with figuring out if someone is trying to get to me for my magical potential."

Akari smiled. "You are learning not to trust anyone. Wise. Almost everyone has an agenda. The ones least likely to have an agenda against you are the Independent families. That is one reason I offered to get together with Tim at dinner. Christopher is as safe as you are likely to find in someone who is not blood-related."

"I'm sorry I didn't trust you Akari, I am. I ju-" 

"Stop." The normally quiet and deferential Akari said the word definitively, and even without magic the tone cut Sally off. "I told you that you were wise not to trust anyone. Even me. Even going forward I may have reason to use or betray you. I have no plans to do so, and have no desire to do so, but that does not mean I will not if needed." She continued in a softer tone. "We live in dangerous waters. A mage who trusts is used. One who does not may be lonely, but they will live longer."

"And the Independent Families are safe?" Sally asked hopefully.

Akari laughed, a silver tinkle of chimes. "Oh no, not safe at all. But a student, a first year, they will have the least options and agenda, and be least capable of executing a plot without alerting you. That is why I have encouraged your relationship with Christopher." Akari tilted her head slightly, like a bird. "Why? Did you kiss him? He is cute."

Sally rolled her eyes. "No, I didn't. He has been helping me with the dueling work though. He is... nice."

Akari smiled, "Yes, nice on the eyes too."

Sally picked up a small pillow and threw it at Akari. "Stop it. So I can trust him some?" 

"Some. Why? Do you need to trust him?" Akari tossed the pillow back, completely unrepetant. 

Sally pondered what to say. "I'm not used to needing to keep secrets, but... Mr. Van der Meer said things about my potential."

Akari held up her hand up. "My friend, if you divulge this to me, I will of course try to keep your confidence, but we just talked about this."

Sally actually laughed. "I know," she said between chuckles. "But I need to trust someone and I like you. I want to trust Chris too but I need to figure out how to get to that point." 

"Trust Chris?" Akari asked with a smile, "And like him too?"

That time Akari got the pillow in the face.


[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.05 - War Declaration\|3.05 - War Declaration]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Akari Sakai\|Akari Sakai]]
