---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-05-war-declaration/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.04 - Tactics\|3.04 - Tactics]]

Tilly stood in the foyer of the main hall by herself, watching Akari and the Rivers girl talk. Tilly's mother had deigned to answer Tilly's repeated messages about the Rivers family and now Tilly was certain she knew more about the blue-haired git than she knew about herself. Not there was much. 

Tilly knew the Rivers were a pair of Academics. Studying biology in Central Pennsylvania. "How quaint," Tilly thought derisively. With Laurie Vance giving her special training, and the Bellingham boy drooling over her, Tilly wanted Sally Rivers put in her place and after a little thought, she figured the old ways were the best. 

Especially against a novice like Sally.

So Tilly stood in the shadows and waited, like a lioness on the savannah until the prey arrived. 

Christopher came into view across the foyer. Tilly left her spot in the shadows and stalked across the room and timed her approach to meet Chris just as he was in Sally's line of sight. The boy looked startled, *as he should,* Tilly thought to herself as she made a small show of touching his face, smiling, getting into his personal space. Tilly didn't look back but he did see Christopher look over her shoulder and be startled at something. Tilly reached up to cup the boy's cheek and said something sweet and endearing then walked away. 

The damage done. 

As Tilly left she saw Sally speed walking toward the front doors. "Message received then," Tilly snickered to herself as she strolled casually through the Main Hall and deeper toward a library. 

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.06 - It begins\|3.06 - It begins]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher Bellingham\|Christopher Bellingham]]
