---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-06-it-begins/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.05 - War Declaration\|3.05 - War Declaration]]

Arthur Villareal was a scion of THE Villareals, a very strong up and coming old money family in the Cabal. It is hard to recall that when he is trudging down into the basement to use the workrooms for his homework. The hospital antiseptic white fluorescents didn't help his shitty attitude.

He had tried skipping his homework the first week. That was when he was made aware of that harridan Laurie Vance. He was simply ignoring that menial Steven when asked about it and the room had gone black as pitch. Two fiery eyes pierced the darkess and a voiced screamed, SCREAMED at him, HIM! Arthur Villareal. He fell out of his chair scrambling to escape the apparition and blinking found the room LAUGHING at him sprawled on the floor, Laurie Vance standing over him like a disapproving schoolmarm. 

He couldn't intimidate these people and they wouldn't recognize his natural status as their superior! Didn't they realize the Cabal paid the bills? Owned this place? 

Arthur turned the corner to the workroom he had reserved and stopped, the sight and sound registering in his brain, but not yet consciously. Then the stench hit him. Shit and blood. The red smear resolved itself to a body, gutted and spread out on the floor. 

Arthur puked. He had no control it simply all came up. He heaved several times, then turned and ran as fast as he could for the door to the stairs.

Down dark corridors, something tap-tap-tapped into the distance.

[[3.07\|3.07]]
