---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-07-tag-you-re-it/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.06 - It begins\|3.06 - It begins]]

So the school was more than a little disturbed. The blood and viscera of the dead body had been cleaned up, but the emotional stain was still present over the school. The trauma of a murder taking place in a spot everyone knew was safe was offset by one fact, but compounded by another.

On one hand, it wasn't a student. 

On the other, the so far unidentified (to the students) person got into the basement of the most secure facility in the world, supposedly.  So it wasn't one of them, but it was a stranger who shouldn't have been there. 

Classes had been suspended for the day, but students weren't allowed to leave. The school was on lockdown, which meant the students had a lot of nervous energy and nowhere to vent it. 

Sally picked up her staff and walked out onto the grassy field, nervous as hell. Not just because of the death, but because Tilly and her wand were waiting for her. Tilly had tagged her four times in a row in practice. Now the entire school was out to watch under the midday October sun. 

Steven's low but strong voice cut through Sally's reverie of impending failure. "You agree this contest is to First Touch, and no harm shall come to any within the field?" 

Sally nodded her agreement as did Tilly. Tilly in her expensive athletic wear. Sally normally tried to be nice to folks but Tilly was just such a bitch.

Absently Sally heard the ten count as her feet carried her. She had been drilling with Mr. Van der Meer and Christopher and she was getting better. She knew what to do if she managed to catch the shot from Tilly. 

She just hadn't been able to yet.

On ten she turned and held the staff at an angle across her body. 

Tilly's first shot went wide and splattered to applause from outside the partition. Sally's eyes locked on Tilly's across the field and Sally remembered every hint, every tip. 

Watch the eyes, ignore the hands, the body. The eyes will show you intent.

There was the slightest narrowing of the eyes. The first time Sally had actually seen it and her staff was already coming up, even before the tip of Tilly's wand flicked upwards. 

The lance of light hit the wooden staff squarely and Sally *pushed* like she been practicing. 

The bead of light leapt from her staff three yards towards Tilly's wand, where a thread of light connected it. 

Surprised apparently, Tilly hadn't noticed and Sally kept pushing, the light streaking toward Tilly faster than a man could run.

Tilly caught on and pushed back, but it wasn't nearly enough. The light slowed even as it slammed into her wand. The length of wood jarred out of her hand and the partition exploded soundlessly. The cheering much louder this time. 

Sally stared at Tilly in disbelief even as Tilly stared back equally frozen. Then Tilly's mask slipped to rage for a minute, she scooped up the wand and stalked off. 

Sally walked slowly off the field in a daze. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]] caught her eye and smiled, giving her a thumbs up.

She smiled back. She had just beat Tilly in a duel. Well it wouldn't likely come that easy again next time, but she done it. She allowed herself a small moment of internal cheering.

She could do this.

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.08 - Pushing forward\|3.08 - Pushing forward]]