---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/3-alignment/3-08-pushing-forward/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.07 - Tag, you're it\|3.07 - Tag, you're it]]

"I can't do this," Sally complained as she pushed the volume back on the desk and dropped her forehead to the old worn wood. The book, an actual paper hardcover, was part of an assignment for TT. Simple in theory but proving maddening in practice. 

Design a spell, using just what can be gleaned from the book, to get through a locked door. 

The book? A dry old treatise on Keynesian Macroeconomics.

Sally had been trying to read it for an hour and all she had to show for it was a headache and an understanding that free markets didn't really exist in a vacuum, but were managed by government intervention.

Akari was out working on an Arcanum meeting. Christopher was also working on the project separately so she couldn't even vent to him, if she wanted to. Which she didn't. She had avoided Chris since that display with Tilly last week. Getting one hit in on Tilly in dueling didn't invalidate all the hits Tilly got on her, or the touchy-feely stuff with Chris.

Sally got up and looked out the window at the dark sky. The sun was setting faster in these mountains than she was used to up north. She got her windbreaker and keys and walked out of her room. Down the stairs, it was quiet save for a trio of students in the living room watching the flag and working on some other homework. She still only knew half the names, and she had few classes with them. 

Outside had a little nip in the air. Comfortable to her, but the students said living in the South 'thinned the blood'. Though the mountains supposedly helped there. Steven Harwood even commented on it in class one day when talking about equivalents. 

"Altitude correlates to Latitude. As you go UP you can also equivalently be going North. In the desert of the American southwest are mountains whose peaks have the same environment as Southern Canada. As in magic, if one cannot gain a foothold in a language to aid a spell, one can look to a material, or a gesture. Something to offset a weakness, or a combination to reinforce an ability. Be wary though, channel too much power through gesture, word, or material, and your spells may develop lives of their own, outside of your control."

Sally could understand that concept, but as she walked by the lake and heading for the forest, she couldn't see the application from a macroeconomic point of view. 

"Hey," a voice called from a bench overlooking the lake. "Be careful heading that way."

Sally stopped and looked over. Arthur Villareal was sitting on the bench, staring out over the lake. 

"There are things in those woods. I don't think they are friendly. After the body..." Arthur shrugged and went quiet.

There hadn't been any more news on the body, but after a few days, an 'all clear' was sounded and classes had resumed. That hadn't really satisfied anyone, but routine had a healing power of its own.

"What do you mean?" Sally asked, curious. Arthur's eyes tracked over to her. 

"I went out there once. The trees called my name, not in a nice way." Arthur shrugged. "I hate it here and I think they don't like me. Maybe you'll be fine."

Sally paused another minute and sat down on the other end of the bench. "Any luck on the project for TT?" Sally ventured.

Arthur looked over at her. "Yeah it was easy. One of those 'think outside the box' stupid things. My dad made me run through those over and over and over." Arthur made a wave of one hand. "Trick is to look at it sideways, go head on, you'll never succeed." He snorted. "The old bastard was a journeyman here once, if you can believe it. HE was a teacher." Arthur's bitterness cut colder than the breeze. 

"I.. I don't know what to say," Sally stammered after a moment. "But thanks for the help. I'll try that. I don't have the background you do."

Arthur turned and looked at her again. The night was pretty dark and his eyes looked like pools of black water. "You don't have the background, and are in Royal Hermetic. There is no justice." Arthur suddenly stood and walked away, back toward the houses, though not toward the House of Man Ascendent. 

Sally was stunned at his vehemence, but didn't lose track of of his comment. Sideways. 

What did you need to get through a door? A key, a person with a key, for the door to be unlocked? No the question stipulated a locked door. 

What did the book talk about? Supply and demand, aggregation of costs and revenue. Macroeconomics was all about big patterns. 

Patterns!

Sally pulled out her tablet from her windbreaker and pulled up the list of Decans Christopher had been talking about. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Magic/Decans/Akhouiy\|Akhouiy]], the Decan of Patterns. What is a key but a pattern that fits a lock? 

Sally stood up and turned off her tablet, pocketing it. She too headed back to the houses. She had a lead. 

At the edge of the forest, a flash of white shown in the darkness for just a moment, then was gone.

[[3.09\|3.09]]