---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/2-steven-s-view/2-02-politics/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/2- Steven's View/2.01 - What the Journeyman saw\|2.01 - What the Journeyman saw]]

Steven walked back through the east wing of the main building and down a long corridor of classrooms. He turned right and down a slightly less long corridor with offices. He went past the secretary with a nod and she glanced at him with out breaking stride in her typing at her computer. 

"I already told him," she muttered as Steven walked past. 

"And he needs only two more reminders," Steven replied easily. The woman stifled a smile. 

"You are terrible," she muttered, "But not wrong."

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Masters/Francis Hornblatt, Esq.\|Francis Hornblatt, Esq.]] was emblazoned on the door to the office and Steven rapped once before entering. It never crossed his mind NOT to enter. The offices weren't actually private spaces, no matter how the Masters tried to claim they were. Francis had actually tried to seal the door with magic once and the Secret Master removed it, like Francis was a recalcitrant 15 year old talking back to their parent. It was back now, but Francis had been reminded.

"Sir," Steven spoke respectfully, "You are up in half an hour and it is a good ten minute walk to the amphitheater." 

"The students are always behind schedule Steven," said the sharp voice of the man hunched over the desk. He was inspecting a rock. It appeared as a rather rough and dull lump of some jade or serpentine material.  A foot tall with a smooth and flat base as at sat squarely on the desk. 

"Yes sir, which is why we cannot be. We should encourage better behavior, should we not?" Steven's voice was mild but tinged with subtle reproach. 

"Watch yourself, Journeyman. You speak for the Secret Master, but that does not make you my equal." Master Hornblatt still hadn't looked up. 

"I would never presume, Master." Steven's voice hadn't adjusted at all. "But in this case Master Reyes specifically asked me to see that you were on time. As I am speaking for two Masters in this instance, logically speaking, am I not in the right to chastise one?"

The Master behind the desk raised his eyes behind his gold-rimmed glasses to look at Steven. There was a terrifying self control there, as Steven could feel contempt radiating off him in waves, but his expression was mild. "You will go a step too far one day Steven. I hope I am there to see it."

"I hope you aren't sir, for if I go a step too far, we may all be in greater trouble than even your abilities may counter." Steven smiled easily, knowing he had gotten the Master's full attention finally. "Now, the introduction for the year? You drew the short straw?"

Master Hornblatt sighed and stood up. "Fine, I'm on my way. Tell Cecilia to stop mothering."

"As if that would ever happen sir." Steven replied dryly.

Francis chuckled, "True. She has the temperament doesn't she. Let's go. I presume you'll be escorting me all the way to be sure I actually get there?" 

"I feel I can trust you to walk across campus and speak to a crowd of students sir. I have to go and brief Master Gadwell." Steven looked a little strained at that one.

Master Hornblatt shuddered and stood up, pulling on his jacket. "I should feel flattered you came for me first then. Good luck, I hope she's sober." The Master walked out the door without moving the rock off his desk or even bothering with the door. Steven stared at the rock for a moment and shook his head.

"I should destroy that thing, or send it back where it came from." Instead he left the office, closing the door behind him and headed for the stairs. Time to brave the beast in her lair.

