---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/0-intro/0-01-introduction/"}
---

Introduction

“It has been said many times and many ways, that a master magician should be able to do magic, naked in the desert. While true, they ignore more fundamental issues. In the desert there is the sun, the air, the sand and rock underground. Deep down there is water buried. There is a power in all these things and in the magician themselves. I would say any magician can work magic in those rich conditions, if they know how.”

The man speaking was perhaps in his late twenties. His hair was a bit too long and colored a dark brown, the facial hair was borderline between a light beard and too much stubble. Fit, wearing blue jeans a little frayed at the cuff and a long sleeved button down shirt, he could fit in anywhere from a dot-com startup to a corporate office. The room he was in looked more like a library than anything else. Warm wood walls, two bright windows with shutters instead of curtains, a collection of a dozen fairly comfortable chairs scattered in a loose arc several deep in front of him as he stood leaning against a massive wooden table towards one end of the room. The wall behind him covered in books. Outside the windows the day was a bright morning. 

“The very concept of magic is nothing more than making a wish for something in the universe to be DIFFERENT. Whether that difference is internal, external, doesn’t matter. You are wishing for a change in the current state of the universe. Anyone can make a wish, the difference between anyone and a mage is the knowledge and ability to enact that change. You are all here because you have demonstrated some knowledge or natural ability in this direction already, and you are willing to take the next step into that madness.” He grinned. “Some of you made that choice with eyes wide open, others made it blindly. For those who made it blindly, I sympathize. I was there with you myself once not too many years ago. I survived. The odds are on your side to do so as well.” He paused, “Well, 60/40.”

The room was briefly filled with polite chuckles. The people in the chairs responded either out of politeness or genuine mirth. A collection of teenagers from a variety of walks of life based on the styles of clothing, jewelry, hair styles. One boy, looking barely past seventeen, raised his hand and he was acknowledged.

“Sir? Is it true some students don’t make it out of Ashgrove?”

The man at the front of the class scratched at the stubble on one cheek, “Well first, it’s Steven, not sir.” He grinned again, his blue eyes bright and cheerful. “And second, I will not lie to you. Every student that enters Ashgrove leaves. They do not all learn magic though. Some are simply unsuited for it, and are sent away. Sometimes with the knowledge of magic wiped from their minds. I will also tell you, sometimes extraordinary measures are called for to make certain everyone leaves after your time here. Magic can be extremely dangerous. It is not always possible to shield you from the consequences of your own actions.”

He unbuttons the cuff of his left sleeve and rolls the crisp white material up, exposing his forearm. Stark against his tan skin is a livid raised scar pattern, criss-crossing the skin. More than one student does a sharp inhale at the sight.

“Nothing can protect you except yourself. Vigilance. Care. Even then you are advised to practice with friends or in a group.” His eyes drifted over the collection. If he noted a few female gazes lingering he ignored them. “I will be your instructor for Introduction to Thaumatological Theory or TT as we will call it instead of that mouthful. We will meet here daily for an hour every morning at this time. I may give you assignments. I want to see work done on them. I don’t care so much about accuracy at this stage as I do a serious desire to do the work. Am I clear? Because despite what some may have told you,” his eyes noted a few already eschewing a work ethic towards the back of the classroom. Two boys and a girl completely indifferent to his little speech. “Magic is not for dilettantes. Approaching it with less than your full attention can get yourself and others killed.” 

He sighed heavily. “It is also very rewarding work. So tonight on your tablets pull up the document in the folder for this class, there is only the one but more will get added as we progress. Pull it up and read it. There will be no quiz, no test, but I will expect you to have read it and be familiar with the terms it defines and we will start working our way through magic theory and spell construction, in general terms. For now, it is the start of the semester and the school is confusing to navigate, so we will call it today and give you an extra fifteen to get to your next class. Git. I’ll have office hours this afternoon 3-5 and 6-8 if you need help pulling the file up on the tablet, but normally my office hours are Tuesdays and Thursdays 3-5 and you have to compete with the upper classes I also teach.”

The students got up out of their chairs, some faster than others. Due to the arrangement it took a minute for everyone to work their way out. Some, like the eager young man who asked a question, smiled at Steven on the way out. One girl had vibrant blue hair and looked thoughtful and nodded to Steven on her way out. Others like the bored three from the back actively refused to make eye contact. Regardless he kept his smile on until they all left. He made a casual hand gesture and the door swung slowly closed by itself. Once shut he addressed the empty room. “The three in the back. Portia’s boy? The Van Tillingham girl? Who was the other boy?”

“Villareal, [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]],” the sultry female voice matched the appearance of a woman who stepped out of nowhere into the back of the classroom. “They haven’t been in the news but his father was a big deal here back in the day. He is in [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/World Factions/The Cabal/The Cabal\|The Cabal]] of course. The other Kin were well behaved but I agree those three will be trouble.” She slunk through the room with an air of sexuality despite her vaguely conservative dress and comfortable shoes. It was her dark eyes most likely under a frame of glossy black hair combined with that voice that made men drool. She paused before Steven and lifted a finger to touch the scars on his arm. “That is always a nice touch,” she chuckled, even as the scars disappeared back into the flesh of his arm. 

“It gets the point across,” he gave her a wink then pulled away from her touch to roll his sleeve down. “No comment on the blonde on the window side or the redhead?” Steven smirked. “Usually you lead with all the girls you think are going to be distracted by impure thoughts Laurie.”

She tsked, “You missed darked-haired boy up front.” Her grin gave away this teasing was an old habit of theirs. 

Steven rolled his eyes, “What AM I going to do with you Laurie?” Obviously a rhetorical question as he turned away to the door. “Should have had enough time for them to have wandered off, but at some point we will need to let them know they have two teachers.”

He opened the door by hand and looked over his shoulder at the raven haired Laurie. “Going to hide under my desk during office hours?” He gave her a grin and a wink and strolled off as she called to him-

“You wish!”

Once he was gone her shoulder slumped a bit and she bit her lower lip, “I do wish dammit, but not now. Now we have work to do.” She glanced around the room and shook her head. “If you are listening, I know what you think you are doing. It isn’t going to work. He’s fixated on the work and I’m… me.” She sighed and left, disappearing from sight before she reached the door. It may have closed behind her on its own. Or not. It closed either way.

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0- Intro/0.02 Arrivals two days earlier\|0.02 Arrivals two days earlier]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher (last name)\|Christopher (last name)]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]

