---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/0-intro/0-02-arrivals-two-days-earlier/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0- Intro/0.01 Introduction\|0.01 Introduction]]

The SUV bounced along the narrow asphalt road. Either the driver was terrible or the road was, possibly both as it seemed there was a pothole every few seconds. Two of the three teenagers riding along had given up on their phones as signal cut out several miles of winding mountain road ago. The third had music downloaded and was quietly listening on her earbuds, watching the river down below out her window flash in and out of view. The AC was cranked up but every brush against the windows told them it was very warm outside, despite being in the mountains of Western North Carolina.

The road made one last sharp left turn, the latest in a long series of blind turns, and a set of gates were visible ahead only a fe hundred feet. The SUV drifted through the gates at speed and after one last bump at the edge of the property, the road smoothed out to glass. Forest now filled both sides of the car, deep and green shadowed sunlight filtering through. Primeval. The road continued to snake along, but the up and down was turned into a gentle downhill slope and eventual the winding ended as well, leaving the SUV hurtling toward a bright spot ahead on the road. 

The forest ended with a certain abruptness and the teens had to blink and shield their eyes at the sudden sunlight pouring in. A wide open lawn of green grass started at the edge of the forest and rolled downhill to a massive manor house situated on the edge of a lake, surrounded by additional large manor houses, at least a dozen of them, connected by graveled paths. There were greenhouses, a boathouse and dock on the lake, and a large building that looked like a garage, based on the black SUVs that were pulling in after dropping off their loads of students. Above and beyond, rising mountain ridges, eroded by time from the massive peaks of ancient eras to the tired bones of the Appalachians and covered by primeval forests. 

The girl with the music stopped the player and pulled out her buds as the SUV pulled up behind several others in a line in front of the house. They could see at least four more vehicles with people unloading suitcases or in one case a wheeled trunk. The driver came to a smooth stop at the end of the line and killed the engine. 

"Everybody out," he called as he himself was already halfway out his door. The tailgate lifted and he was offloading suitcases to the bright white gravel next to the road. The teens complied as if they had a choice in the matter and spent several moments looking at the building itself, then the other people. 

Four stories tall it looked, an imposing fieldstone building, her front facing north and residing in a near permanent shadow. A turreted tower in one corner rose another four stories above that. The building screamed castle more than school, by the simple sign by the front steps tried to make one a believer. 

==**The Ashgrove School**==

The girl who had listened to music on the drive took ahold of a plain black rollerbag and pushed a lock of blue dyed hair back off her face. "Ok mom," she muttered to no one in particular. "I'll give it a shot." She pressed on without a glance at the others. Not a striking beauty she had a sturdy build to her, with hair colored a brilliant blue, the kind that lasts a good few months before it starts to fade. She was dressed sensibly in flats, jeans, and a short sleeved shirt that had a graphic about a parrot on it, a sweatshirt tied about her waist. She plunged through the crowd trying not to annoy but wanting to get through, leaving the other two from her car behind. 

Those two looked at each other. He looked rather annoyed and sullen, dark brown hair refusing to make it to black and running long, half in his eyes. A few white heads on his chin, but his clothes were expensive. The kind of expensive that looks trashy to NOT look expensive unless you knew what to look for. He made a vaguely disgusted sound and looked at the driver who was closing up the tailgate. "Where are the servants to take my bag?"

The driver scratched at his stubble idly and leaned against the black SUV. Despite the heat he had a long sleeved light beige shirt on, one of those outdoor, sweat-wicking ones with vents and a dozen pockets, it was tucked into his jeans held up by a very work and broken in leather belt. He looked at the boy and smirked. "This isn't your daddy's house. You carry your own bags here." He nodded to the girl with a polite half-smile and took a left to head for the front door. 

The kid looked at his retreating back angrily, "Who does he think he is?" he sneered in a whisper. He stalked over to the bags and grabbed his. 

The girl with long straight blonde hair and pale complexion was just looking at her phone and holding it up to the sky but whatever she wanted, it wasn't there. She grabbed her bag even as a loud penetrating voice called over the noise of multiple conversations. 

*"No, there is no cell signal here! Yes there is wifi, no you cannot have it for personal use regularly. There is a room with open wifi and a signup sheet, first come first serve. Multiple people can use it at once if they agree. If you don't have your room assignments, there are hard copies on the table in the entryway. Older students are standing by to help you out, inside. They aren't coming out here to carry your bags or wipe you noses. Dinner service starts at 4:30 and goes to 7, fruit and nuts available 24/7. Go get unpacked. I want new students in the dining room by 4:30, done eating by 5:30 for an orientation at 6."

There was near silence when he stopped talking, only the breeze was left to fill the void of that loud voice speaking direct into everyone's ear. People started milling actively into the building. Some in shock, others angry, most excited. 

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0- Intro/0.03 Welcome\|0.03 Welcome]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]

