---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/0-intro/0-05-1-star-rating/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/0- Intro/0.04 Welcome to your house\|0.04 Welcome to your house]]

A short walk in the clean air isn't bad, in general. With a suitcase and backpack on a gravel walkway, a bit more-so. Only a few students were breathing heavy as they walked up to the door of a white manor house. More students were splitting off left and right to other houses arranged in a rough triangle to one side of the house they started at. A clearing of the throat drew their attention back to the blue sashes in front of them. 

"Almost every year someone asks if there is a password or a secret door, or teams to get into. The short answers are no, no, and not really. There are student organizations to get into, but with a student body of about a thousand, spread across several years, the groups aren't large." The speaker was a tall girl, late teens or maybe twenty, dirty blonde hair pulled back in a ponytail. Her blue sash laid over a comfortable yellow tee shirt with a sunflower pattern. "Houses are technically open for anyone to walk through, sit in, common areas, et cetera. There is a catch of course." 

She opens the door and ushers you all inside where several other older students are waiting, getting up from couches and chairs scattered about a large open room done in white. Over a marble fireplace mantle hangs a flag on a simple crossbar. It shows a burst of flame in yellow and red on a black background. Stark in the white room. 

"The common room of every house holds their flag. There is an on-going competition. You are now part of it. Flags can be stolen. Flags are worth points to the house that has them. Protect the flag." She looks at all of the them. "You are now members of [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Cthuga\|the House of Cthuga]], Lord of Flame Imperial. This flag is important and you will treat it as such. Now, your rooms. Your rooms are not common areas, you'll see why shortly." 

She gestures to the gathered upperclassmen.  "Meet your housemates and roommates. You can and will be relying on them for your orientation period. Next year you can pick a roommate or apply for a single, or apply to be in their shoes and help freshmen."

She runs through the list and starts naming names. New students start heading upstairs with their roommates. 

"[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]!" 

Arthur had been steadily losing interest until his name was called. His roommate was a big guy. Well over six foot tall, muscled like a professional weightlifter with pale Scandinavian blue eyes and buzzed cut short blonde hair. "C'mon," he said sharply and headed for the stairs, not offering to help Arthur with his suitcase. Arthur struggled while his as yet unnamed roommate waited impatiently at the top of the stairs. The walking wall of muscle headed down the left side at the top of the stairs and down a wing that showed the building was larger than first appeared. It felt almost like an upper class hotel. Soft lighting, smooth carpet. But the doors were rather close together. He opened a door three down from the hallway by the stairs and went in, leaving the door open. 

The room wasn't large. Arthur's mother had a walk-in closet larger in their apartment in the City. Two beds, two desks, two closets. A bathroom that looked like it was shared with the next room down. 

"My name is Michael--"

"What the fuck is this shit?!" Arthur cut him off as he stood in the center of his tiny and now shared room. He cussed loudly, not caring who heard. "No wifi, having to share a room with some asshole I don't know, and this room is smaller than my closet at home!" He kicked the waste basket across the room and and groaned in frustration. Three large valise cases were on his bed, and his leather satchel was on his desk. A note from his mother said they had been sent on ahead and to 'enjoy his time' at Ashgrove. 

"Fuck this, I am not staying here!" he raged and turned for the door. A hand like a steel trap closed on his shoulder and slammed him down in his desk chair, casually. 

"Michael," he repeats in a gentle unaccented tone. He peels his sweat stained tee shirt off, showing a wolf tattoo on his shoulder. "Unpack what shit you need, put the rest under the bed. I'm going to lay down rules. I know all I need from reading who you are and listening to your bitching." He turned and looked down at Arthur. "Mr. Villareal's little boy doesn't mean shit here. You want to follow daddy in the Cabal, make the rules, you put in your time here. I don't care what you do or don't want. I have dealt with your type before, they have three endings. Three."

Arthur stood up to the muscle bound roommate, trying to show him who had the clout here and he feels an invisible hand grab him by the balls and pull. He collapses in pain on the floor as Michael stands over him, not having moved. 

"One, you learn. I really do hope you do. Two, you wash out. They wipe you and you go on to Harvard, or Yale, or who the fuck cares and you get a corner office and a string of mistresses but you never know how the world *works* and your family is always, *always* disappointed in you and you will never know why."

Michael took his towel and a carryall of soap and shampoo and went to head to the bathroom. 

"Th-three?" Arthur squeaked out.

Michael paused. "Three, someone, I won't say who, arranges for you to get lost in the Ways and your body is never found. You'll hear the Masters say they always get you out. Yeah, they do, but sometimes they have to go back in time to FIND you before someone does something permanent to little shits like you. You hear me Artie? You know why I'm your roomie? Cause I will take care of you, one way or another, and you can't intimidate me, you can't threaten me, you can't even impress me."

The bathroom door slams behind him and the invisible hand releases his junk, letting Arthur breath again. It is another minute before he struggles to get to his feet and look at the suitcases. "Enjoy his time mom? Really?" He begins unpacking. Quietly.

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Arthur Villareal\|Arthur Villareal]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Michael (last name)\|Michael (last name)]]

