---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/1-setting/1-05-dining-hall-etiquette/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.04 Dinner Conversation\|1.04 Dinner Conversation]]

Tim was a senior and and was Christopher's roommate. Christopher was a legacy or 'Kin' from Seattle. Tim was from Dallas, his parents were also Academics. Sally found out in conversation that Akari's family was one of the Japanese independent clans. Tim and Akari and even Christopher all had high levels of innate magical strength, sometimes called Empowerment. Akari assured her she would learn all the basics in her Introduction to Thaumatological Theory class, but several terms got spelled out for her, some her parents had already told her, but confirmation was reassuring. 

Power didn't mean strength, it meant control. A natural discipline and innate understanding of how to control magic. People with more Power developed finer control of their magic faster. When people said Power they mostly meant Empowerment, which was a mouthful. It meant raw ability to channel magic. How much natural power you could handle. The houses were grouped based on Empowerment. Man Ascendent had the minimum, then Walking Trees, then Hastening Sunset, Sally's parent's House. 

The House of Blood and Bone was the highest regular House, the one the other three aspired to. No one apparently wanted to be in the House of Clocks Stopped at Midnight, and their House, the 'Royal Hermetic' was for the powerful anomalies. The really strong. 

The freaks.

The pork chop was excellent. Sally was mopping up some gravy with her roll when the table went quiet. Looking up, she saw the House Proctor, [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]] standing by their table. 

"I'm headed home, but wanted to introduce myself. I probably won't see any of you this year save at events like this, but I try to be friendly and approachable. [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]]." His Dutch accent was quite noticeable. "I am not a Master, but I am a teacher here. I also help run the dueling teams. We will be putting on a demonstration this Saturday on the green in front of the main building. I hope to see you there." He smiled politely, there seemed real warmth there, and he wandered off to say hello to other tables on his way out.

"He seems.... nice," Sally tentatively offered. 

"Ohh he's cool," Tim agreed. "And the dueling IS fun. I did it some, got my ass kicked." He chuckled easily and ran a hand through his short brown hair. "One fun fact about dueling, it levels the playing field. Your strength matters, but skill is even more important, so the House of Man Ascendant usually wins. They have more players and they enjoy kicking our asses."

Sally thought about what Laurie said in the basement. Steven thinks I have potential. "What does dueling mean here?" She asked Tim.

"Well there is a cleared field, they raise a partition using their will and their magic, then they lob power at each other until one falls or runs away. You can block shots, try to avoid getting tagged while trying to tag the other person. In theory a duel can be to the death, but both parties have to agree to it. Never happens anymore, but in the old days they used it to settle blood feuds."

Tim shrugged. "I only tried it twice, there are all sorts of rules and conditions. It's a full sport to those guys, but it looks cool as hell." Tim looked around the room, "We should make room for other folks if we're done. We can keep chatting in one of the sitting rooms though if you want?"

Tim collected his plate and glass. Christopher had been mostly quiet through the conversation but he too collected his things. Sally wondered if they deliberately paired quiet people with outgoing people, and how they knew.  She and Akari joined the boys in returning their dishes to a bin by the door. At this point Sally wasn't prepared to doubt there were elves or gnomes doing the dishes somewhere, and didn't ask.

Tim led the way to one of the small sitting rooms used during the day as a classroom and collapsed into a leather armchair. "So Sally, tell us all about Pennsylvania." He grinned, putting her on the spot.

Sally blinked and sat down before explaining about how college football dominates things where she comes from.

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher Bellingham\|Christopher Bellingham]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Tim\|Tim]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]]


[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.06 Taking full advantage\|1.06 Taking full advantage]]
