---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/1-setting/1-08-love-what-you-have-done-with-the-place/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.07 Dueling Loyalties\|1.07 Dueling Loyalties]]

Walking into the main building the fine Saturday morning in August, Sally was struck by the smell of a pig wallow, and the appearance of a medieval village. Down to geese walking around and a cow was chewing their cud in the corner. Sally had to blink twice, then a third time. She looked back and the door led outside to the North Carolina morning. Inside was midday in a medieval village. Clouds in the sky partial obscuring a sun overhead. People, students, were milling about, talking to people in different shops. Each shop was apparently a different student organization. Sally knew this was the main building and this was a large foyer with four stories of balconies looking down. Despite that knowledge, she was in a medieval village and she halfway expected mud on her shoes. The shop closest to the door was the Arcanum, and from it, Akari waved to Sally. "You made it!"

Sally smiled and came into the shop, ducking her head under a low lintel. "Um, yeah. I got distracted by the duelists outside but I made it." Sally looked about the rough-hewn wood of the shop. "I've never seen this..."

Akari smiled, "We did it. The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Arcanum\|Arcanum]] and the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Psychics\|Psychics]], we put an illusion over the main hall to look like this. Do you like it?" She was very animated, for her.

Sally looked about, "This isn't real then? I can't tell." Sally ran a hand over the table. "It is completely real, to me."

Akari grinned, "It wouldn't affect you if you had more training, but yes, no one without training and practice could resist it. The Fair is for first years though, so none of you really can resist. Well maybe a few, but only Kin who have trained for years. Oh I spoke with Steven this morning, I can take you home to your place next weekend if you can finish your work with Miss Vance by Friday."

Sally perked right up, "That is evil of him, but I get it. Motivation." Sally looked around. "Let me talk to the other groups and I'll come back, if that's ok?" 

"Of course Sally, go have fun!" Akari smiled and ushered Sally back out into the throng of first years checking out the Fair. It was suitably weird to know she was in a building, that what she saw as a village square was a the huge entry hall of the main building, and seemed like storefronts were actually tables with a few chairs. She stopped walking as a flock of geese scuttled through. 

Sally looked about, gawking like a country bumpkin in the big city for the first time for a solid minute, taking it in, then started walking counter clockwise about the square. 

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Psychics\|Psychics]] were there, talking about their mind games. Since they had done most of the illusion she was in, she had to agree it was impressive.

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Weather Wizards\|Weather Wizards]] had a small demonstration of controlled rain going. 

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Makers\|Makers]] were building a sandcastle inside their booth. Several castles in fact, made of sand and about four feet tall and Sally wasn't an expert but they looked historically accurate. Small armies were besieging them with tiny catapults.

A tall blonde boy built like a he lifted weights daily was talking about the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]] and their work on [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|The Ways]].

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Diviners\|Diviners]] had set up a silly crystal ball and palm reading shop, but they were also actively discussing real Divination and the role of probability in premonition. Sally stopped and listened for awhile. Half of it sounded like complex physics and the 'many worlds' theory.

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Druids\|Druids]] had a small earth elemental, the first Sally had ever seen. It was two feet tall and made of rock and dirt with a few vines woven through. Sally was polite and it bowed to her. She was a little freaked out but kept her cool.

The [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wardens\|Wardens]] had a booth where they discussed security, both personal and school level. Sally learned that while there were rules against using magic against other students, they were both regularly ignored and difficult to prove. Personal defense was critical. Sally took some flyers on self-defense (magic) seminars they held.

There was a small coven of [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Witches\|Witches]] discussing the Craft and making it clear they were not affiliated with any Covens outside the School even as Magistra Reyes watched from nearby.

Sally returned to Akari and the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Arcanum\|Arcanum]] booth. Sally listened as Akari explained to another first year about how the Arcanum worked with the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Psychics\|Psychics]] and the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wardens\|Wardens]] and the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]]. How the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Psychics\|Psychics]] concealed Ashgrove from the sight and mind of the world, the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wardens\|Wardens]] defended it from any who got through, the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]] patrolled [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|The Ways]], but it was the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Arcanum\|Arcanum]] who had the unenviable job of reinforcing the magical defenses. While the school was in theory operated independently, all the various world spanning powers wanted to control it. They couldn't act directly or the others would all gang up on the one, but that didn't mean they didn't all try. Scrying shields, dimensional fractures, simple wards and subtle tripwires. The job of the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Arcanum\|Arcanum]] was to out-think the best minds in the outside world when it comes to magic. 

"Don't the Masters come from outside?" Sally asked. 

Akari nodded, "They do, and they rotate, and we change our defenses up regularly. The only Master that doesn't rotate is the Secret Master, he advises us. Sort of. His Seconds do."

"And we do alright, I think," said a very familiar and sensual voice from behind Sally. A voice that made men stand at attention and women ponder their life choices.

The blue-haired girl turned to look at [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]. "Good to see you, ma'am."

"Sally," Laurie acknowledged her. "We mix pure magic with mind and illusion, sometimes weather even." At Sally's confused look she elaborated. "A gap in snowfall would be obvious from orbit, so sometimes we make it snow, even if we don't all enjoy it."

Sally shook her head, chuckling. "If I can get through the practices you have me doing, maybe I could help out with weather? I like snow."

"Perhaps," Laurie conceded, "But that 'if' is hanging a lot of hopes. I think you'll get it soon." Laurie nodded to Akari. "I have paperwork to deal with, I expect you all have this?" At Akari's nod, Laurie strode off and passed through a wall Sally had been certain was real. 

"She's been patient with me, but she still intimidates the crap out of me." Sally shuddered briefly. 

"Me too," Akari whispered back. "I have to get back to the table, but I can catch you for lunch later?"

Sally nodded, "I may be watching the duels. They are so cool!"

Akari smiled, "I know! I'm no good with hitting targets, but they are fun to watch."

Sally headed back out into the sun as another firework splattered on the bubble overhead.

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.09 Got wood?\|1.09 Got wood?]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Akari Sakai\|Akari Sakai]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Michael (last name)\|Michael (last name)]]
