---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/1-setting/1-09-got-wood/"}
---

The dueling was ongoing, as evidenced by the flares of arcane light and near soundless explosions of sparkling color. Sally wandered toward the table with the sign up sheets and displays, but the spectacle kept distracting her. This exchange was going on a lot longer than the few previous she had seen. As she got close enough she found out why. Steven was directing the attacks and defenses to illustrate points for the observers. Wrist flicks, whole arm movements, none were intended to hit the other duelist. Just demonstrating. 

Sally looked at a display of wands. Some were smooth wood, some had natural curves worked in. Some had bone handles, others inlays of precious metals. The rods were slightly longer and thicker. If the wands were nine inches to a foot, the rods started at a foot and a half and went up to the length of a cane. Then staffs, staves? Sally didn’t know. A full length walking stick six feet tall. Some were gnarled, others perfectly smooth. Some had carvings, others bits of bark sealed in. Sally stared fascinated. 

“The staff is better for defense,” said a familiar boy’s voice. Sally turned and it was Christopher from her TT class. “My dad competed. He taught me all about it, even showed me how to raise a partition and we’d volley a little. My aim was improving.” His expression saddened suddenly. “But then he died. Haven’t practiced since.”

Sally blinked at that rollercoaster of emotion. “Um, I’m sorry about your dad. You could… try out. For him? Maybe feel close to him again?”

“Maybe,” Christopher shrugged. “Thanks, it’s been awhile but I still miss him.” He straightens his shoulder and tries to smile. His brown hair needs a combing over his square jaw and big green eyes. “Find any good student groups? My mom says they are more important than your House for getting a job after school.”

Sally shrugged, “I can work with the Weather Wizards or Diviners. I’d like to help the Arcanum but I don’t know enough. I’d love to try my hand at dueling but… “ Another soundless explosion of light and color goes off.”

“It’s intimidating at first. Once you get past that though it IS a lot of fun. Most contests are to first touch. They don’t hurt at all. You can go to submission, that means unconsciousness, first blood which is like a touch but it leaves a scar, or to the death. You have to both agree to the terms though. No one can force you onto a duel to the death.” He smirked. “Well they could blackmail you into agreeing I guess, but the partition won’t rise unless both contestants agree to the terms.”

Sally was suddenly aware that Christopher, young as he looked, was about more aware of the details of this magical world than she was. With that knowledge and his kind words, she was also suddenly aware that he was cute. She turned back to the duelists on the field, suddenly shy. “Well maybe you can show me how this dueling stuff works sometime. Explain the rules and all?”

“Sure,” Christopher agreed, looking at the duelists with her as lights streaked and flashed and people cheered. “Anytime.”

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.10 Breakthrough, no not like that\|1.10 Breakthrough, no not like that]]
