---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/1-setting/1-10-work-with-what-you-know/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.09 Got wood?\|1.09 Got wood?]]

Another evening in the basement. Outside was a light rain, scheduled by the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Weather Wizards\|Weather Wizards]] to take advantage of a warm front moving in. It would get heavy in the overnight supposedly.

"You are distracted," said a voice right in her ear and Sally jumped nearly a foot off the ground. She had been standing outside the workroom, staring blankly at the signup sheet. She had been distracted, and she had been called out on it.

Laurie melted into view, like the world had been covering her up and the rain outside washed away to reveal her presence. 

"Please don't do that," Sally whined. "I haven't started on the work yet, I'm allowed to think of other things."

Laurie *almost* smirked. "I suppose, but you need to always be paying attention. As for concentrating, Steven has an idea on how to get you more motivated." Laurie pushed into the workroom. 

"We have a different plan tonight." Laurie busied herself in the cabinet in the corner. "Stand in the center and try to clear your mind." Laurie turned with a piece of dark wood in her hands. 

A wand.

All of Sally's focus converged on the wand. 

"That is one way to clear your mind I suppose." Laurie's response was a bit snide, and it told Sally that Laurie was actually picking up her thoughts, which should scare her, but she was already terrified of Laurie so what else was new?

Laurie handed over the wand and gestured to the wall. A target of concentric red rings appeared. "We are going to 'brute force' this. Get you moving forward in a way you'll find more of an inducement."

Laurie moved out of Sally's field of view and her voice lost the snide tone. "There is raw power inside you. A strength of magic. I want you to feel it, a wind, a river, a light, whatever visual works for you. Feel that power growing, focusing on the wand, and through the wand, and lashing out to hit the target. Do NOT think of ritual, or patience, just feel the power flow through you into the wand and out to the target."

Sally concentrated on her breathing, let the silence of the room settle into her. She felt, more or less, a whirlpool inside her. Maybe it was a tornado. It ran in circles around her, through her. She was in it and it was inside of her. As she felt it, it grew stronger, faster. It had a light to it. A blue light. She felt it running through her and she felt the hand in her hand. She felt that torrent growing and growing and she thought just *so* about the power being turned out down the wand.

The target on the wall shattered, the pieces disintegrating moments after the entire thing blew. 

Sally blinked. "Did I do that?"

Laurie chuckled. "Crudely, but yes. You shattered the illusion I placed there by funneling a massive amount of power into it."

The surprise and exhilaration of success buoyed her a moment, but she realized she felt very tired. "Um, I feel-" 

"Like you just sprinted a 100 yard dash, yes. I told you, crude. But it worked. We will do it again." The target reformed on the wall. "This time, instead of forcing it, tell yourself when it flick my wrist and say 'Arcanus', the power will flow. Set it all up in your mind, make yourself believe it, then try."

Sally stilled herself again. She felt that raging torrent rising again. *Not until I say it. When I say it. When I say it. When....*

"Arcanus," she stated loudly. The power flew through the flick of her wrist out the wand and the target shattered. 

"Better, still crude, but getting there." Laurie reformed the target. "Again."

Sally smiled faintly and lifted her wand.

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.11 Breakthrough, no not like that\|1.11 Breakthrough, no not like that]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Laurie Vance\|Laurie Vance]]
