---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/1-setting/1-11-breakthrough-no-not-like-that/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.09 Got wood?\|1.09 Got wood?]]

Sally had spent two hours a day in the workroom with Laurie for the last two weeks. Her work with her parents before getting to Ashgrove really did help, as she understood the terms they had been trying to explain to her better now that she had context. Grounding, cleansing, ritual cutting. She had drilled with Laurie Vance every day except Saturday for the Fair and Sunday which was a quiet study day. She had managed to manifest actual fire, wind, and a gout of water that she had to clean up afterwards. It was easy to forget she had other classes than TT. Her "Introduction to [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|The Ways]]" class had a lot more math than she expected. History was a lot more detailed than she had expected. Sally was glad she had narrowed it down to 'French Renaissance History' and not a more global option. Of course as she was finding out in the her Intro to [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] course, the school literally had direct access to observe ancient history, as long as they were careful.

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|The Ways]] were, in their easiest to understand form, a set of paths that threaded through out all of the Past, Present, and Future like some sort of extra-dimensional space. In them, time mapped to distance up or down hill, and space mapped to distance laterally. Direction was somewhat subjective by the person Navigating or leading the group. Two people on the same trail could travel the same distance and end up in two different locations, if they were concentrating on different destinations. It would be possible to travel across the globe to France, then downhill, backwards in time to the Renaissance. Step off the Ways and actually be in Renaissance France! The textbook also discussed various methods used to preserve history from the unscrupulous, not the least of which are the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]], an independent group comprised of students of Ashgrove and graduates who lived all through history, adjacent to the Ways, guarding time itself. Reporting in regularly and seeing what may have happened to alter their future. 

Sally was getting a headache just trying to wrap her head around the logistics of such a thing. It didn't help that the book also discussed the Men in Black. The rumors and legends of a secretive government agency fighting aliens and preserving secrets was almost right?! The Men in Black worked for the Cabal, the single largest magical organization on the planet. A semi-independent group, their oaths to protect the world from dangers and the release of the secrets of magic made them incredibly formidable. Zealots, defending the world at the expense of their own lives. 

Sally shook her head and tried to clear the spinning. Christopher had helped some. Sally's parents had been Academics. They had explained that there were other groups, but Christopher was a scion of the Washington Bellinghams, and old independent clan of wizards out of Washington State. They had ties to the Technorati, but were independent of them. Christopher knew all about all the factions. He might be somewhat shy, but he had no problem answering questions for Sally for hours on end. Slowly he was relaxing around her and opening up more. 

Sally put the book on [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] down and checked the time. Akari was working late on a project with the Arcanum, but Christopher had said he'd wait for her outside the dining hall around 5:30. That would be in 10 minutes so Sally freshened up, tidied up her desk since Akari was something of a neat freak and while Sally wasn't, she wanted to be a good friend. Besides, Sally had another reason to be nice to Akari.

Christopher was waiting in a chair outside the dining hall reading a paperback. He was engrossed in it to the point Sally had to casually kick his foot. He started and looked up, saw Sally and flushed crimson.

"Sorry, sorry, didn't see you." He dropped the book in his backpack and hauled it onto his shoulders. "Dinner?" He asked hopefully, as if he hadn't been waiting for her. 

"Yes Chris, dinner." Sally smiled at him and he gestured for her to lead the way as he got his backpack over his shoulders. "Sorry about the bag. I'm headed home for the weekend. Grandpa insisted and I can't just say no."

"I am going home too," Sally said with poorly concealed glee. "Ms. Vance said my sanctifying was acceptable, after two weeks of work. According to the TT book, it should only take an hour a day for a week. It took me two weeks and two hours a day, but I did it."

"Good for you," Christopher sounded relieved. "Akari is going to escort you? Yeah I have a cousin who's a junior. He's in the [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Factions-Clubs/Movers&Shakers\|Movers&Shakers]]. They didn't have a booth at the Fair last weekend. They recruit only the best of the folks out of the Magic, Movement,  and Gates classes. He's taking me."

"Your family does two of those, right? Gates and pure Magic?" Sally was picking up the bits and pieces. The big groups had folks that did everything. The smaller groups tended to specialize. The Independent clans especially focused into one or two schools of magic. They sent some of their family to Ashgrove every generation to learn other things, but the families had a focus they stuck to. The Bellinghams did Magic and Gates.

"Right," Christopher picked up a salisbury steak and some mashed potatoes. "When Lewis and Clark got to the West Coast, my ancestors had been out there a generation already. The Technorati call in favors now and then to look into Magic specific issues, but mostly we stay to ourselves and watch [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] in our area. There have been [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Past, Present, Future/Outsiders\|Outsiders]] trying to get through there before."

They took a seat at a table and dug in for a minute before Sally asked a question. "'[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Past, Present, Future/Outsiders\|Outsiders]]? I don't recall that term from the books." 

Christopher chuckled. "I'm not surprised. The Cabal doesn't like to admit they exist, the Men in Black write them off as anomalies, and they are, but the Pacific Northwest seems to attract them, like Massachusetts does. An Outsider is ... well you know how you can go back on [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] and make a change and then coming back to now, that change has propagated? You altered the present? Well what if you go WAY back, follow a different branch of evolution. Something completely alien to this world, but part of it, just 'outside' what we know and understand?" Christopher ate his mashed potatoes. "[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Past, Present, Future/Outsiders\|Outsiders]]. Sometimes they find away across the planes directly, and some places are weaker spots. They attract that sort of thing. The PNW is one. There are small mountains in New Hampshire that have that. The Tepui Plateau in South America. Parts of Tibet, there is a fissure under the Nile River. Normal folks can feel there is something 'off' there. Creatives get weird stories." Christopher mopped up his gravy with a roll. "The MiB hate that they can't seal them off, so they try not to talk about it."

Sally shook her head, "Right more weirdness. Ok can you explain something less weird? Some folks in the Dueling club were talking about woods for wands and staffs. Can you explain the differences?"

Christopher smiled, "I can, but it'll take all night and I need to get back home. Even with [[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] it's a long hike across the country. I'll be back Sunday afternoon though. I can talk you through the difference then." He hesitated a moment before continuing, "I'll talk to mom about it, maybe bring back some of dad's gear."

Sally hadn't meant to drag up that wound, but she was touched. "That would be sweet. I'd love to talk Sunday. I'll ask Akari about her schedule and when we'll get me back." 

Christopher gathered his plate and glass. "Cool. It's a date then, Sunday afternoon to talk wood." He paused a moment, frozen. "I mean, it isn't- a date... but, sorry." He turned away and hurried off before Sally could tell him it was ok. 

Sally rolled her eyes a bit as Christopher's retreating backpack.

[[The Ashgrove School/1- Setting/1.12 Home again\|1.12 Home again]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Students/Christopher Bellingham\|Christopher Bellingham]]
