---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/1-intro/0-04-welcome-to-your-house/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Intro/0.03 Welcome\|0.03 Welcome]]

"So to be safe, just don't go into the basement levels until you get through orientation," said the girl in the blue sash leading the way of the large mass of students. The speaker was short, plump with dark hair and a black shirt adorned with some roses and thorns and blood. There may have been a band name in there somewhere but Sally couldn't make it out from her spot in the middle of the pack. She had been nattering on half audibly for some time and the caution about the basement was probably important. "There isn't any real danger, but you could run into things best left for after orientation." She chuckled. "Ok since the new folks get the leftovers, you can assume your rooms aren't in the first half of the wings. The good news is there are side doors on both wings you can go in and out, the bad news is it isn't covered and we do get weather here, on a schedule though."

Silence fell as the group approached a very large manor house. White pillars going up three stories, balconies out front with students leaning on the railings, watching the newcomers. 

"Welcome to [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Man Ascendant\|the House of Man Ascendant]]; the largest House on campus," her voice sounded prideful, but Sally's parents had been concerned when the letter came, with her placement. They had nothing but good things to say about Ashgrove, but they had both been in [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of Clocks Stopped at Midnight\|the House of Clocks Stopped at Midnight]]. Sally had thought that a mouthful, but her parent's had said the names dated back hundred of years, full of meaning, even if the meaning was no longer relevant. Sally had found that thinking all to common in her magical studies these last two years. 

Her reverie about names was interrupted by the doors opening ahead of them. Wide double doors, the one on the right squeaked a fair bit. The group filed inside, some thirty people, with travel luggage. Even though the main entry and living area was wide open with only a few pillars and the furniture one would expect, it was crowded. The short girl in the shirt, which Sally confirmed is in fact a rose on fire with some bad font band name under it, stood on the mantle and clapped her hands to get their attention. 

"This," she says pointing to a plain white flag with a gold handprint on it over the fireplace, "is the House Flag. Starting right now, it is important to you. Every House has a flag. Every week we get a score based on how MANY flags are in a given House. Yes, we steal each other's flags. It is a game. A game with real consequences, up to and including better desserts, first access to food at dinner, and occasionally personal attention from the Masters. You are new but let me say, if a Master knows your name, that is a big deal. Getting personal time in the House with a Master improves your chances of getting a good job when you leave Ashgrove."

"How about the Secret Master?" Someone in the back asked. 

She shook her head, her dark braids swinging, "If they ever showed, they wouldn't be a secret now would they? That said, their Journeymen sometimes come in and chat. Almost as good. The journeymen for the Secret Master are guaranteed good jobs."

"Now we are a little unbalanced on last names this year, so if your last name starts with a letter from A to and including H, head for the stairs please. I have a volunteer with a blue sash at the top of the stairs waiting for you. A through H, head up. Let them through folks, we will move faster if you cooperate." After a minute of shuffling and banging bags, only a dozen or so were left and the room felt bigger. 

"Your roommates will fill you in on questions about day to day stuff. They all volunteered for the job and there was a bidding lottery to pick your roommates, so they all wanted to be roomed with you. For now, once those folks get up the stairs, I'll take you up to the west wing. Still a bit of a walk, and some two-thirds of you will be on the third floor. We are a big house." She chuckled a bit.

"Why is that?" The young man next to her looked like a cross-country runner, all lean muscle and intense with light brown hair pulled back in a ponytail.

"[[The House of Man Ascendent\|The House of Man Ascendent]] is for student with no particular gifts in magic, past the basic ability. We also take in the students who may not even have magic, but are magic adjacent. Werewolves, people with an uncontrolled talent for a single ability like dreamers or oracles. The houses where people have a particular talent for an aspect of magic go to those houses, and are a smaller percentage. There are three quantified talents regarding magic. You'll learn the details in TT. That's Intro to Thaumatology Theory. Simple way to look at it, magic takes time, a cleared and properly warded space, and a connection to the target of your spell. The other Houses don't require one or two of those things. [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Houses/The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage\|The House of the Royal Hermetic Mage]] doesn't require ANY of them. They are the smallest house, but also the most powerful, individually. Not that we are weak here." She smiled broadly. "We hold our own, and you'll understand why once you get some experience at the school, but quantity has a quality all its own. Now let's head up."

The stairs were broad and carpeted. The rollerbag was getting heavy and Sally didn't look forward to hauling up another flight of stairs. They walked down the long hall and it looked very long from Sally's point of view. She was somewhat surprised when her name wasn't called to head upstairs at the break. Of the fifteen students, ten were sent to the third floor and she was happy she wasn't one of them. She was surprised when her name was the first called barely past the break. Sure half the wing was between here and the front door, but she was only two doors away from the stairwell that led to the side door. Her key worked and she pushed inside as the rest of the group pressed onward.

The room was typical for a college dorm. Small. White walls. Minimal furniture.

Well to be fair, there were two lofted beds, two desks, two closets. The window faced out west, and the sun was already starting to slip into the room and warm it up more. There were blackout curtains, but they were pulled back. Her roommate was obviously in residence as the one bed was made, one desk had a book on it, one closet had a hanger on the handle. A subtle set of markers saying, 'Mine.'

The other desk had a familiar box on it, as did the bed. She had packed those a week ago and they had disappeared with her parents. Here they were; her stuff. She heaved a sigh and dropped her backpack, sitting in a free desk chair, looking around the room a minute before she hauled the overpacked backpack up onto the desk and began unloading. 

She was halfway into her rollerbag when she heard a key in the lock. She went very still as the lock unlatched and the door opened tentatively to see a very short and slender girl, long straight black hair and dark brown eyes in a pale face.  She was very obviously of Asian descent. The girl stayed right at the door to the room, not entering. 

"H-hello," she softly stammered. "I've never... done, this before so I didn't know how long to give you before saying hello. I'm your roommate," her voice dropping a bit more. "Akari. Akari Sakai. Pleased to meet you. I will let you continue in peace, I'm sorry."

"Wait- just... come in," she gave the tiny girl a lopsided grin, "It's your room too. We can talk while I unpack." She leaned over and extended her hand, "I'm Sally."

Akari stepped hesitantly into the room and shook the hand gingerly, her little hand seemingly fragile. "Good to meet you in person Sally. They gave me some generalities when matching up to new students, but not much more than name, picture, and where you were from so we could find you if you needed help." Akari stepped over to her bed and hopped up onto it, getting off the floor and out of the way. 

Sally nodded, "Well I flew in this morning from Philadelphia. I'm not from there but it was the closest airport that would fly direct into Asheville. It was only two hours. Took an hour to drive to the airport. I'm from a little place in PA... Pennsylvania. How about you?"

Akari had been listening intensely. "My family lives outside San Francisco currently, but they moved here from Japan when I was a baby. When you have a year of practice, if you are any good, they won't make you fly anymore." She brightened up a bit. "I was seeing my mother this morning in fact, then came back here by myself." 

Sally stopped, obviously not hearing things correctly. "You saw your mother this morning? In Asheville?"

Akari grins, "No silly. In San Francisco. Well, Mill Valley is across the Bay technically, on the north side. If you like, I can ask if I can take you home for a weekend. They sometimes say yes." She tilted her head, looking vaguely birdlike. "This is a school that teaches magic Sally, you should learn to expect strange things." The petite girl raised a hand and lights started dancing. Little pinpoints of light swirling like shooting stars in tight orbits about her hand. She makes a tossing gesture and the lights scatter about the room, impacting the walls, furniture, Sally, who stares unbelieving. 

"My, my mother said I needed to come here to learn, like she did. I just thought she was being kind. They- my parents, taught me some, manipulating Chance?" Sally stammered.

"You're Kin? A legacy?" Akari smiles, "They didn't tell me. That makes a big difference, they have to let you go with me, or let me take you back to your home if I get some good directions! We will have so much fun!"

Sally looked at Akari still not quite believing. "Magic? I... I need to talk to my mom."

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/1- Intro/0.05 1 Star Rating\|0.05 1 Star Rating]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Sally Rivers\|Sally Rivers]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Akari Sakai\|Akari Sakai]]

[[The Ashgrove School/Writing/Table of Contents\|Table of Contents]]