---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/writing/2-setting/1-06-taking-full-advantage/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]] sat at the end of the table on the stage and picked at her chicken. Mostly she watched and listened as the seniors clustered around [[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]]. She had no such need as to be seen and remembered by the teacher, and sipped a sparkling water as she lounged above the masses in her Chiffique silk loungewear. When Frederick said his goodbyes and headed down to mingle, Tilly got up and left her dishes to step outside the dining hall. She went straight to the front door and waited, tapping her foot impatiently. Eventually he emerged from the throng and he saw her as he walked to the front door.

"Tilly, so good to see you little cousin. Shame you have to stay in this House, but perhaps you'll have a breakthrough any day now hmm?" His warmth and charm almost masked his barely concealed disdain for her. Almost.

"Cut the crap cousin. My mother is pissed off and you know why. Fix it." Tilly's words were little barbs of venom directed at the teacher. They seemed to fall short though, as he was unmoved.

"Your mother will have to wait for her little princess to get off her ass and do the work. Even I cared to move you to my house, I cannot until the Masters verify you. Can you fake it with one of the Masters?" He snorted. "Do tell Dorothy I miss her terribly. Perhaps she can pull herself away from Paris long enough to visit you on family day." Frederick walked past her without a second glance and went out into the sunset. 

Tilly glared at his retreating back and then went to the main stairwell and down. She had some more spells she needed to prepare. She went down the stairs, student voices echoing in the stairwell from above but the basement was effectively empty. She stalked past the upperclass training rooms to the one she had staked out around the second right turn. She made the turn at speed and stopped short. 

Outside her training room was a tall thin woman all in black and red. The colors did nothing for her appearance. Pale and possibly a little yellow under the fluorescent lights. The woman turned her head in a birdlike gesture to stab Tilly with her dead glare. "Abigail, I presume," her voice was a hiss of dry leaves. "A little early in the year to be reserving a room on your own. Most students are advised to pair practice." Her dead grey eyes looked right through Tilly and memories of old conversations between her mother and her friends bubbled up. 

"Ma- Master Gadwell, I presume?" Tilly managed through a suddenly dry throat. 

The woman in red and black moved impossibly fast and was in Tilly's 'personal space' in a blink. She looked at the girl in her expensive silks and Tilly had a very real fear that no one would ever see her again. A moment of terror and clarity that cut through her family arrogance and social position. True mortal terror for her life. 

The moment passed as the Master was suddenly back at the door, peeling the paper off. "Your use of this training room is denied until you find a partner to work with. Learn to get along Abigail." The woman looked at her a moment longer and then was just gone. 

Tilly's heart thudded in her chest and she eased backwards to the main hallway and she ran for the stairs. Once the doors had thudded closed, laughter rang through the tunnels. A dark laughter but one with true humor in it.

[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Students/Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham\|Abigail "Tilly" Van Tillingham]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Teachers/Frederick Van Der Meer\|Frederick Van Der Meer]]
[[The Ashgrove School/Characters/Masters/Gabrielle Gadwell\|Gabrielle Gadwell]]
