---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/4-disciplinary-measures/4-00-the-plot-thickens/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.09 - Pieces on the board\|3.09 - Pieces on the board]]

There weren't a lot of computers in Ashgrove. That is, there were small tablets in every student's hands, but they were more book readers than computing devices. There were cell phones, but without reception, the students could only use them in the one room of the main building, and the signup list was days long. It was with something approaching smugness that Steven scrolled reddit at his desk on his phone, when he was interrupted by a text. 

The contact was simply 'Little Bird' with the message; "Authors have an outline".

Steven read it and deleted it. He closed his reddit session and checked the weather. Not in North Carolina, as the local students kept things temperate, but in Cairo, Egypt. Most of 90F. 

Steven got out of his vaguely comfortable chair and went to Laurie's desk to write her a quick note, then slipped out of his office through the back gate to his private apartment. Technically Laurie could use it as well to access his place, but he knew she wouldn't. Her sense of things meant she wanted him to pursue her, and he wouldn't, so she wouldn't enter his private quarters. Simple as that.

He might have been burned by 'simple as that' before, but with Laurie he had a much stronger footing to make that assumption. He snagged his hat off the rack by the door and went to the kitchen.

A novice student would look at a problem like what Steven was about to do and say it couldn't be done. But then Steven was no novice. He flipped over a throw rug in front of the sink. Woven into the pattern was a complex circle. Steven stepped onto the rug and took a deep slow breath, centering himself. 

He counted silently to ten, whispered a word ironically appropriate that sounded like 'hee'. 

On the other side of the world, the heat beating down and the sun in the late afternoon as it slid through the slats, Steven stepped off a woven rug and flipped it over. He took a keyring off the hook by the door, unlocked the door, stepped outside and locked it again, before disappearing into the streets of Cairo.

[[The Ashgrove School/4- Disciplinary Measures/4.01 - A death in the family\|4.01 - A death in the family]]

[[The Ashgrove School/z-Reference/Characters/Journeymen/Steven Harwood\|Steven Harwood]]
