---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-ashgrove-school/world-factions/the-cabal/the-men-in-black/men-in-black/"}
---

A policing group within [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/The Cabal\|The Cabal]] dedicated to concealing knowledge of magic. Every day it gets harder though [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/The Technorati\|The Technorati]] are stepping up and handling online content. They concentrate on Mind Control, Memory Alteration, and high speed travel. A MiB can be in London in the morning, lunch in L.A. and cleanup a mess in Singapore before catching some sleep. They have actual badges for traveling [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] and not pissing off the [[The Ashgrove School/Factions-Clubs/Wolves\|Wolves]]. Possibly the biggest coup the Cabal has pulled off. Of course it obligates the MiB to help in policing [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] when asked, including their own members! A double-edged sword, the MiB can use [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]] for policing, but must also police their own organization to prevent them from abusing the privilege.

Made famous by the movies, they existed long before in rumor and story. They travel the world, covering up magical issues that impinge on the awareness of people. Erasing memories primarily, or altering them. To be a member of the Men in Black (women are accepted too) is to be trained in the [[The Ashgrove School/Magic/Path of Mind\|Path of Mind]], and demonstrate capability of mass mental adjustment in the field. This makes them somewhat terrifying, but they all take an oath to protect the secrets of magic from the masses, and to not abuse their powers for personal gain, an oath enforced with Magic and a very real threat of having their minds destroyed. They are the police, the watchers who watch the magi. Not that that makes the others feel better. No one really trusts the Men in Black. They have magical tools for manipulating people and memories, and preservation of the secrets of magic takes priority. All it takes is one MiB to go rogue and hell could literally break loose.

Within the Men in Black are several loose organizations based on specialties.  The [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/The Men in Black/Opal Sentries\|Opal Sentries]] are concerned with the identification and training of new mages. The [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/Void Stewards\|Void Stewards]] explore and understand the realms and access to [[The Ashgrove School/The Grounds/The Ways\|the Ways]]. While the [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/Void Stewards\|Void Stewards]] are explorers and curious, the [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/The Men in Black/League of the Brilliant Seal\|League of the Brilliant Seal]] is focused on dealing with extra-planar threats and see sealing them away as a priority. They actively attack [[The Ashgrove School/Past, Present, Future/The Fae\|The Fae]] without question. [[The Ashgrove School/World Factions/The Cabal/The Curators\|The Curators]] are conservative by nature; they worry about the abuse of magic and take steps to curb use they deem unseemly, though they document and stash it away rather than destroy it.
