---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/3-09-pieces-on-the-board/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/3- Alignment/3.08 - Pushing forward\|3.08 - Pushing forward]]

Tilly looked through her recent 'care package' from home. Snacks from Paris mostly. Food in America tasted different. Food from home was better in all ways, Tilly had decided. Under a box of cookies was an envelope, Her name on it in her father's handwriting. 

Tilly sighed and pulled the envelope out and tucked it in her fanny pack, a stylish one that matched her outfit for the day and headed downstairs. Past the main floor and into the basement. The restrictions on use of the basement rooms for training had been lifted, but caution was still advised. 

Tilly blazed through the caution sign without slowing down. The tunnels were unchanged, but they felt colder and darker. She knew the way to her destination now without thinking, muscle memory taking her down turns and crossing intersections of the maze down below the School grounds. She came to the door of her destination and noted the signup sheet was clear. She scribbled on the next line with the attached pencil and noted the current time to an hour later, then went inside.

The workroom was anonymous as ever, and she took a minute to draw a circle of chalk on the floor. Basic and simple, but continuous and marked in the cardinal directions. She took out her phone and scrolled to a note, then recited something in a dialect that maybe a half dozen people in a specific corner of Northern Australia might have recognized as vaguely familiar. 

Nothing appeared to happen, but Tilly felt confident her working would handle casual inspection, and unzipped her fanny pack, extracting her father's letter. Her hands only trembled. little as she broke the seal. 

Nothing obvious happened, but Tilly's eyes closed and her breathing slowed. Inside the envelope, three hairs, two black and one grey turned to ash. Tilly's eyes opened, unseeing, and she whispered. "Yes, father. I understand."

[[4.00\|4.00]]
