---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/4-01-a-death-in-the-family/"}
---

[[The Ashgrove School/4- Disciplinary Measures/4.00 - The Plot Thickens\|4.00 - The Plot Thickens]]

Steven wandered the streets of Cairo. He turned left, then right then right again then left. He would walk three blocks quickly, then turn right and stroll slowly down one. At one point he stopped and watched kids playing soccer on a side street. Eventually his wanderings took him down less travelled side streets where even the suggestion of a breeze died away. The heat intensified in the narrow confines and the storefronts were older, worn, rundown. The noise of the city fell away in the medina he found himself in, wandering alleyways where the only noise was an occasional argument two stories above. 

The sign on the door he stopped at wasn't in English, but Steven inspected the worn gilt all the same then went in without knocking. A small brass bell affixed to the door rang its alarm at his presence in the dark and stifling room filled to bursting with ancient books coated in dust. He wandered to the counter, then around it. Somewhere deeper inside a young man's voice called out in a foreign tongue, most likely a local one actually, but Steven pulled a faded curtain aside and called back in flawless Coptic, "ⲉⲣϫ?" 

The young man paused, startled at Steven appearance in the doorway. A number of emotions flitted across his thin dusky face before settling somewhere between fear and anger. 

"My uncle is dead," he told Steven in accented English. "It may have been natural, but in the event of his death I was to notify you if any of his sources turned up information."

Steven paused and his own features settled into resigned melancholy. "Let us retire to his office if we may. I have things to relay to you Ahmed." Without waiting for a response, he pushed past the young man and down the hall, turning to the left. 

The office was brightly lit, the windows opening to the central garden and the comfortable leather furniture glowed in the reflected afternoon light. Ceiling fans moved the air lazily but the furniture had a thin layer of dust. The bookshelves quite a thick layer. Steven checked the decanter and poured himself a glass of gin, adding a splash of the tonic water in the carafe next to it. It was stale, flat, but added good flavor. 

"Tariq, my old friend, may you find what you sought all these years." Steven saluted the bookcase with the glass and sipped. 

"I recall your visits, though my uncle never shared details of who you were." Ahmed had followed him into the office warily. "He let me manage the contacts and drops though, as his health failed. He said we worked for a greater good, gathering information." Ahmed paused. "He said we would never be rich, but as long as we held faith, we would never know want either."

Steven didn't look at him, but instead at the old books. "He spoke truly. Your uncle and I go way back." He lifted his glass to the books. "There is a copy of The Odyssey in Greek on the top shelf. Get a stool and bring it down, then open to his return to home." Steven took a seat on the couch and sipped his gin. "I'll wait."

Ahmed didn't look happy, but he did get a stool and pulled the book down, coated in dust. He opened the old volume and flipped toward the end and picture started to slide out. He caught it before it fell out and looked at it, then went very pale. "How?"

Steven snorted, "You don't need to know how, just that I will keep my word to your family. Keep doing the job your uncle did for me and pass the information on, just as you let me know you had it. I won't always come this quickly though. Now put it back, please."

Ahmed tucked the photo away carefully and returned the book to the shelf. He got down off the stool and went to the small old desk close to the window and collected a folder. He handed it reverently to Steven who took it one handed and laid it on his lap to flip through as he sipped the gin. He said nothing but read the papers, then closed the folder and handed it back. 

"Thank you Ahmed. I'll send your account a bonus to cover your uncle's funeral, and a second bonus to let you know I appreciate you." His eyes hardened. "Know to, that your uncle was faithful to the end to me. I knew him a long time." His eyes flicked to the upper shelf of the bookcase. "If you get bored, there are other photos up there in other books."

Ahmed shook his head. "No ⲕⲩⲣⲟⲥ," he answered quickly. "I believe and have... faith."

Steven stood and set the empty glass on the end table. He smiled to Ahmed. "Dusting, once you get yourself settled in, would be a good idea. I'll see myself out Ahmed. Again, my condolences on the loss of your uncle. I shall miss Tariq." Steven quietly walked out through the storefront and back into the medina. 

In the shop, Ahmed made a gesture with his hand, a warding against evil. He also crossed himself and said, "Zala eamiy yahmini min alshar."

Up on the shelf, tucked into the old book, was a black and white photo. It showed a French soldier standing over the famous Rosetta stone, still in it's spot in the ground where it had been unearthed.  Behind the soldier was a man in a simple formal white linen suit, his smile twisting his light beard and his twinkling eyes made it obvious, even from the two hundred plus year old photo, that Steven was happy to be present for the moment.

[[4.02\|4.02]]